## Tuesday 27 June 2023 {#tuesday-27-june-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [纽约是不是世界最发达的城市？](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/blog-post.html)  {#纽约是不是世界最发达的城市 .list-paragraph}

I\'m chatting with a couple Chinese folks at the hostel I\'m staying at
in Shanghai. Many people I speak to in China have a surprising reverence
for America. I ask one of my roommates, \"in America we have the
American dream. Do you have the Chinese dream here in China?\" He says
that actually, I still want to go to America, that\'s where we all want
to go. In Shanghai, Suzhou, and other prosperous cities in China, I\'m
told more and more young people are trying to move abroad to study.
\"But,\" my hostel-mate caveats, \"is it true that you have many guns in
America?\"

I\'m talking with a girl from Shenzhen and the hostel receptionist one
evening. The girl from Shenzhen asks, \"is it true New York is the
world\'s most developed city?\" I\'m not a New Yorker but I\'m more than
happy to shit on it. I tell them the New York subway is dirty, the
trains aren\'t on time, many people live without a home, and a million
people died in America from COVID. The receptionist nods solemnly, and
says, \"maybe it has to do with politics.\" The Shenzhener says, \"maybe
we all see the darkness in the places we are from.\"

It\'s also true that we see light in places we are not from \-- oh, how
public transport advocates envy China\'s brilliant, world-class
high-speed rail network. And in China, the Shenzhener tells me, they
also love Taylor Swift.

at [June 27, 2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/blog-post.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/blog-post.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=pinterest)

### [Jamba Juice with Dean](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/jamba-juice-with-dean.html)  {#jamba-juice-with-dean .list-paragraph}

It\'s past midnight in Shanghai, China and I\'m calling my friend Dean
in San Francisco. He walks into a Jamba Juice and says \"hey, how are
you!\" Not to a friend but to a complete stranger who is behind the cash
register. Dean is vegan like me and likes that Jamba Juice has added
Impossible Burger to their menu. He says so to the cashier, who I
imagine is a hippie-ish dude with long curly hair and tattoos on his
arms but not his legs, even though it has no relevance to his order.
Dean proceeds to order something with granola in it, but, like me, he
wants to know if the granola is made with honey. The cashier says it\'s
a good question and he\'ll have to get back to Dean about that even
though if it really is such a good question, why hasn\'t he himself
before today? The cashier goes to the back to check. Meanwhile a lady
comes up to Dean and asks, \"are you in line or have you paid?\" Dean
stumbles a little because the truthful answer is that he\'s waiting on
the cashier to look up whether the granola has traces of honey which is
made from bees which suffer kind of at the merciless hands of humans but
actually mostly from neglect during transfer of these insects in the
honey-production process and so that means Dean is not in line but he
also hasn\'t paid so Dean doesn\'t finish his sentence. \"Nope, yeah, no
honey. You\'re all good,\" says the cashier when he\'s back. \"Great,
I\'ll have that then. That\'s Dean. D-E-A-N.\"

at [June 27,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/jamba-juice-with-dean.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/jamba-juice-with-dean.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=pinterest)

