## Wednesday 4 October 2023 {#wednesday-4-october-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [澎湖 The Penghu Islands](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/penghu-islands.html)  {#澎湖-the-penghu-islands .list-paragraph}

I went to Penghu this weekend. It's my new favorite place in Taiwan, so
here are some memories from the places I went to.\
 \
 ![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image1.jpeg){width="1.8958333333333333in"
height="1.8194444444444444in"}\
\
As a preface, I had a fair amount of anticipation for this trip. Even
the map of Penghu reminds me of a Pokemon game. The island is mostly
naturer, and scaled so that you can bike from Magong City to Shiyu
Township in just 3-4 hours. So reasonable, but not so small.

In every part of Penghu, you\'re not so far from the water. Boats and
bridges are essential forms of transport in the Penghu islands. Bridges
connect the main island that Magong is on to Baisha Township, and the
relatively new Penghu Great Bridge (1970) connects Baisha to Shiyu. For
the other adorably small islands, you have to take a boat.

It all makes Penghu so much more *lang4man4* (romantic) than I even
thought it would.\
 \
**馬公 Magong**. Though Magong is a city, the buildings are low and the
people are kind. There's a Poya, 50 Lan, tons of 7-Elevens like
everywhere else in Taiwan. There's also numerous lovely vegetarian
places. I had a solid meal at a Loving Hut. There's a vegan breakfast
place near the ferry port that sells sandwiches and *fantuan* (rice
balls). Two times I went to a buffet-style restaurant, which is also
all-vegan and open every day! \
\
My friends, Don, Lily and Truman and I all went to a wonderful vegan
late-night tea shop. They're open till midnight and rest on Wednesdays.
They have awesome noodles, a friendly
![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image2.jpeg){width="1.4930555555555556in"
height="1.125in"}*laoban*, and great books upstairs about all sorts of
spiritual subjects.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image3.jpeg){width="1.625in"
height="1.2222222222222223in"}I went to a museum about early life in
Penghu. I went by myself and I\'m glad I did, because I go through
museums at a blitz-pace (1 hour for 2 floors). I learned that Penghu has
archeological remains that date even before Taiwan. But most people
didn\'t settle in Penghu because they realized it\'s damn hard to grow
anything there when it\'s so windy in the winter. Most people made
voyages to greener pastures in Kaohsiung or Pingtung. Fruits and
vegetables are still mostly shipped to Penghu from Kaohsiung.  

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image4.jpeg){width="0.9375in"
height="1.2430555555555556in"}

Another night, Don, Lily and I biked around. We saw a very tall statue
of Mazu or the Buddha or Dao-incarnation or something. And we also saw
the end of a rocking concert. 

 

People in Penghu are willing to chat and chat. My friend Truman was
especially good at this. There's no rush on Taiwan's outlying islands.
Magong provides a hub for the collection that is Penghu, but at a
relaxed pace.\
 \
**湖西 Husi**. Also on the same island as Magong. I went to this place
on my last full day. I had a guy staying in my hostel called Mumin. He
was really into kite surfing. Most people come to Penghu during the
summer to avoid the fierce winds that come in the winter. But for a kite
surfer, Penghu in the winter is the perfect place to hone your craft.
It's apparently the best in Taiwan, and even draws international
attention.\
\
Mumin invited me and Truman to go out to Husi with him and witness some
real kite-surfing in action. Truman was hoping to join, but it turns out
that kitesurfing isn't something you learn in an afternoon. It took
Mumin 3-4 years of kitesurfing on the weekends when he lived in Japan to
get to the point where he actually could. That's because in most places,
kitesurfing is possible only occasionally -- the winds have to be strong
and pointed inland (so you're not dangerously drawn out into the sea).
Kitesurfing is also rather expensive to get started. It costs about
6000-7000USD to buy a decent kite and board. And lessons can be almost
100USD an hour (at least with the people Mumin knew). Truman was a
little scared off. I admired the kitesurfing from afar but had little
desire to participate.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image5.jpeg){width="1.6041666666666667in"
height="1.2083333333333333in"}[ ![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image6.jpeg){width="1.6458333333333333in"
height="1.2361111111111112in"}](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEimROjYy8mAHdlXRPYLwkY3_1S437oxWIMUkdO1mm_0AOrLXPVtkC7ZFHEbr6Nyl-U_HUgPSvV-EmcgQ8ixAEz5SqyfetyKdWQK5we8NQRAKBldBK3fQ5lBsSE24FXchOC5UqwkWmtlbIlAyX2vrkfEsHbiFw1HAmEgzcBbZLLoXxqXDzW0QmTCv-3Jbns)

On his break from the waves, Mumin told me about his life. He\'s
Taiwanese and grew up in Taipei, but lived in America for 10 years doing
college and his masters. Then he worked as a tour guide, then tour-bus
driver in LA for a while. As a bus driver he met his to-be-wife, who is
Japanese, and they stayed in touch across the Pacific ocean. He
eventually moved back to Taiwan. It was then that he found a job working
for the US government gathering intelligence through open-source
research in Mandarin/Chinese. The job was a little dry. As someone not
of American nationality, he's not able to get security clearance for
anything cool. But his information gathering contributed to the
intelligence of the CIA. He worked alongside Americans who were highly
proficient in Chinese and Japanese, some from the Mormon church. He was
able to be placed in Japan, but being on the US military base, he didn't
have to know Japanese. He says that job was custom made for him. Now, he
works part-time as a contracter. He spends the winter season in Penghu
and the other half of the year in Japan with his wife.\
\
**白沙和鳥嶼 Baisha and Niaoyu**. Truman have gotten this word of this
festival on an island
called [Niaoyu](https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-tw/鳥嶼福德宮). You have to
take a boat from a spot in Baisha and take a 20-minute boat ride to get
there. But the amount of 熱鬧 (*re4nao4*, liveliness) apparently was
unparalleled. Truman had been to a similar festival before and was
excited to go.

So my first day in Penghu, biked over to meet Truman at the dock and
catch the next boat over. We had gotten the timings wrong so waited an
hour for the next ride. When it did actually come, it turned out to be
reserved for Penghu residents. Apparently, so many people were going to
Niaoyu to watch the *re4nao4 \--* the event was called \"brother
ceremony\" that they couldn\'t let outsiders in just yet. We decided to
try again the next day.\
\
The next day we were successful in getting on the boat. It was in fact
due to the kindness, or sympathy, of the lady manning the dock. She saw
we had come two days in a row, eager as ever to get to this event, and
so saved us have two seats. We got to Niaoyu island after much
anticipation.\
\
The Brother Ceremony was one of the most bizarre religious events I've
ever seen. There were bright, dyed fireworks outside the temple and loud
cracking noises from the detonations. The speakers from the temple could
be heard literally throughout the island. The temple was crowded with
devotees from Niaoyu itself but also other nearby islands. Maybe that
has something to do with the "brother" part of the Brother Ceremony.

 

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image7.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

Truman and I pushed our way through the crowd. It wasn't hard because
people were sapped from the force of the Penghu sun. Inside the temple
were three men dressed in red and gold gowns. Two were old and pudgy.
One was young, relatively -- maybe 40-50 years old.
![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image8.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}They all had blood flowing from their
foreheads. They all were salivating. And they all looked like they were
about to pass out. I was somewhat prepared for this but god, it was
still flabbergasting to see people that really believed they were
possessed by god. In fact it looked like they had rabbies. Drums beat
loudly. The younger man sometimes danced. But he mainly knelt in a
supporters arms, eyes half-closed and shaking his body. The ceremony
concluded.

There was another part where other old dudes dressed in more costumes
\-- this time, like the gowns of men in the Qing Dynasty, and did other
stuff. Let me tell you it\'s weird to see this shit in the 21st century.
And let\'s not forget that the Daoist Temple, like any other nonprofit,
has many hired camera-folk so that the donors don\'t forget that it
happened.

Truman and I then walked around and looked for vegan food on the island.
We had packed food with us, but Truman said he wanted to walk around
partially to take a chance to chat with people and small talk. Most
people's responses were that there was absolutely nothing that was vegan
on the island. Because of this religious event, which happens on such a
scale only once every 15 years, all restaurants were closed. But we
managed to grab some free fruit that some shop was giving out. Truman is
the master of small talking to the point of getting free food. But he
does it I believe out of curiousity. As we ate the fruit, a man asked me
where I'm from, and I told him Egypt. Truman couldn't keep a straight
face.\
\
Truman had met a man named Mr. Chen on another island at a similar
religious ceremony. We saw Mr. Chen on the street chatting to some
people he knew in Niaoyu. Since it was the Mid-Autumn Festival, many
people were visiting Penghu from mainland Taiwan. Two brothers and their
little cousin starting chatting to me. They're conversation starter was,
*ni3hao3shuai4e!*(you're so handsome!) I smiled and partook in the
conversation. One of the brothers was 23 like me. He had enrolled in the
air force for college and trained as an army cook. He said it paid well,
about 30-40kNTD a month, and that's just for a beginner position. But
it's hard work. I asked him how much he thinks an air force pilot makes
(which is what my manager's husband does). He said 200k+NTD a month,
which is a very large amount here. Anyways, we talked with these boys
and their little cousin, a cute 8-year-old girl growing up in Taipei.
She told us about the boys at school and how they're really stupid. She
said they tease her and then she hits them and then they chase her. It
sounded like an ideal childhood.\
\
\
**西嶼 (Shiyu)**. I only went past Baisha to the other islands once.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image9.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

When we gave up on taking the ferry to Niaoyu, Truman and I rode on his
scooter out to where he was staying in Xiyu. Xiyu was beautiful. There
are so many beaches there and natural sites. Notably is Renkan, an old
city that reminded me of Roman ruins. It's not that old. The houses are
made of brick and there are merchants selling random stuff there. We
bought cactus ice cream (or sorbet), which turned out to be vegan, from
a lady who used to host a show for a broadcasting channel that
spotlighted vegan restaurants all around Taiwan. She was very pretty,
had that broadcasting host face. After grabbing cactus ice cream we went
to the very tip of Xiyu which had *another* ice cream store. Truman knew
the *laoban* there, too, a nice chap who told us how his fruit ice
creams are made. Many flavors were also vegan. Truman met him before and
we talked so long that he also gave us the ice cream for free. He
insisted even though we had two scoops between the two of us. This
cactus ice cream was slightly more sour and had some cool rose
flavorings.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image10.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image11.jpeg){width="1.2638888888888888in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

 The last thing I did in Xiyu was snorkling. I didn't quite get the hang
of the breathing. Maybe the angle of my breathing tube wasn't quite
right, so it kept filling with water.So I favored just wearing the
goggles and taking breaths like a normal swimmer (shout-out to mom and
dad for forcing me to go to swimming class Wednesday evenings at
Willesden Sports Center). The coral was colorful, magnificent, alien. It
was big and sharp and I had to be careful not to graze it doing
front-crawl. That day I took a bus back to Magong and was glad to have a
night of rest back at my hostel.\
\
\
**澎湖倫 The Penghu Ferry**. This boat is a thing of magnificence.\
\
I should say a word about the *Penghu Lun's* it's predecessor, the
Taihwa.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image12.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}The Taihwa was also often docked at the
Kaohsiung port and to Lily, and another friend Penny, it sparked wonder
and fascination. They dreamed one day it could take them to the far away
island that is Penghu. It turns out that whatever company owned it found
a buyer for the Taihwa. They sold it and somehow it got to be dissembled
in Bangalore. 

The inside of the Penghu Ferry is like a palace. There\'s flat-screen
TV, beds you can rent on to sleep, reclining chairs, and a small store
to buy food. In the bottom, there\'s space for bikes, cars, vans, and
food \-- whatever needs to be shipped from Kaohsiung to Penghu. It also
has the distinctive smell of beetelnut and oil. When you\'re on the
boat, footing is unsteady in the subtlest of ways \-- you can\'t quite
tell which way the waves are going, but when you get on land things feel
less sway-ey.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image13.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image14.jpeg){width="1.2638888888888888in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}On the way back, I took an evening boat. I
stood on top deck and other Kaohsiungers who went to Penghu for the long
weekend. My friends Don and Lily watched the boat from Magong recede
into the horizon. The sunset illuminated the ocean, and I saw the
disappearing outline of the Penghu islands.

at [October 04,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/penghu-islands.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/penghu-islands.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal),
[review](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/review)

