## Monday 22 May 2023 {#monday-22-may-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Sitting at Sunny Day Coffee Roasters](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters.html)  {#sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters .list-paragraph}

and free writing.

Today I went to the tax office to try to get a tax rebate. I was looking
forward to getting that money back. But apparently you have to have been
working for six months within a given calendar year to be eligible for
the rebate. So she told me, \"come back next year.\" I laughed. The good
news is that I don\'t have to worry about taxes, the bad news is I
don\'t get any money from it.

In July my college friend, roommate, and co-worker Leon is moving back
to the US. He is a dual-US/Taiwanese citizen and for some reason,
doesn\'t want to serve in the Taiwanese military. He says that he
doesn\'t want to perish in cross-strait warfare. I told him Xi Jinping
says the People\'s Liberation Army won\'t be ready until 2027, but
nonetheless, here we are. Honestly speaking, though, I wouldn\'t want to
necessarily do something (the military) for four months either. Jobs
aren\'t as highly-paid in Taiwan as they are in the US, not by a
long-shot. Most people who have the option of both choose to live in the
US and make an American salary.

Nonetheless, my roommate leaving felt like a big change. I\'m scared of
living alone and being lonely, so I found a shared apartment. Four
bedrooms, myself and three strangers. I loosely know the landlord, so I
think they won\'t be crazy. In Taiwan, I think people are much more
likely to be quiet, get on with their business, and never interact with
flatmate than be overly combative. I\'m nervous about moving in with
strangers, as I\'ve never done it before, and I\'m also nervous about
conducting all household business in Chinese. But on the other hand,
it\'s a natural step up in my immersion setting. I\'m confident in my
Mandarin right now, but for the most part I choose when to deploy it and
when not to. Now I\'ll have to have Chinese on my brain whenever I\'m
home, managing things in the house, etc. I think it\'ll be a growth
experience. And not so awful, since many of my friendships in Taiwan are
at least half in English.

My friend Ella told me a bit of advice she heard: \"life is long enough
to do everything you want to do.\" Is this true? I suppose it depends
how many things you want to do. I think maybe most people get to what
they want in life not because of a lack of time. More because of
priorities. Their twenties were spent doing a job they had to do, or
just chose but didn\'t like; then in their thirties they got sucked into
a career or a marriage and these responsibilities just accelerate. A
recurring bit of wisdom I\'ve heard is to go on adventures while you
can. My colleagues, who are around forty, and my old math teacher (about
60), both essentially said, you\'re hardly ever too young to start over.
Anyways, this is all to say that I\'m still in Taiwan because I feel
like I\'m learning here. I\'m learning how to live in a new place, how
to manage relationships as an adult, how to manage money, how to speak
another language, how to make choices. Taiwan makes this easier in some
ways, with most things being absurdly affordable and convenient. Though
living in a new place, speaking in a second language, also makes things
novel and rewarding and challenging in their own way. It\'s such that
when/if I return to the US, hopefully everything will be easy-mode\...
making friends, doing adult things. Easy to the point of monotony? I
can\'t be sure.

Since coming to Taiwan, my goals have somewhat pivoted. Regarding
language, I came here intent on going from my foundation in Chinese to a
strong speaking level. Now, I feel like I\'ve more or less achieved that
\-- confident enough to do most every daily task in Chinese, and have
rich conversations (with somewhat simplified language). I don\'t say
I\'m fluent at Chinese because there\'s many things I can\'t do (as with
anything). But then, I can say I\'m proficient \-- more proficient than
many Americans get with a second language. I also had the less
well-defined goal of enjoying life and exploring new places. I\'ve been
doing so to a large extent. Enjoying life out of college has been
different than I expected. Though I have ample free time at first I
didn\'t have tons to do each day, and so I felt at a loss. Now I feel
like my life is more full, even overly-busy at times, but still
enjoyable. Living in a place I think necessitates sacrificing freedom
for consistency\... that is, consistently attending flute classes on
Mondays, for example, means that I can\'t go on long weekend trips out
of town. But then, I\'m discovering that I enjoy a fulfilling routine
more than the barrage of decisions necessitated by travelling. The
exploration part of life, I think, is not so much my goal as learning
what really fulfills me in a week \-- playing music, reading,
interacting with my students, learning things, journalling and
reflecting. I\'ve realized that more hobbies than I thought transfer to
wherever I live, Taiwan or otherwise. If I ever move to a new place
again, I\'d like to say I\'ll be even more prepared, and more commited
to the routines that ground my life. 

Recently, I\'ve also been learning how to accept things out of my
control. For instance, I think there\'s a chance that super-smart
artificial intelligence will take over the world in a couple decades.
But what can I do about that? Right now, rather little. The same goes
with traffic jams, train delays, scheduling conflicts, and whether my
clothes will crease from being left in the laundry too long. Rationally
speaking, once you commit to a decision, there\'s no point worrying
about counter-factuals until you come to the next decision-point. Easier
said than done. Post-college life goes at a slower pace. There\'s more
value to being content in the present, leveling up as you can in
day-to-day life rather than considering things existentially. That\'s
what my blog\'s for after all.

at [May 22,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=pinterest)

### [Toilet cloggage in on the Taiwan Railway](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/toilet-cloggage-in-on-taiwan-railway.html)  {#toilet-cloggage-in-on-the-taiwan-railway .list-paragraph}

今天我從苗栗三義跟朋友回高雄。我們在台中轉車，走到月台時，發現人超級多！整個月台都是人，可能有一萬人以上，真的『人山人海』。

我們訂了火車票，但我看很多人應該沒買到，很多人打算站著搭車。我有一點看不起沒有票的人，覺得我們應該優先上車，也怕我們可能沒有辦法上車。維平不怕，他就說『大家冷靜！我們訂了票，一定沒有什麼問題會發生的』不過突然火車鳴笛了，感覺我們真的上不了車子。我們很快走到第五車廂，一直推人所以可以上車。本來想可以從第五廂走到第四（我們的位子在那邊）。一開始走的時候，覺得人們蠻願意幫助我們，盡量移動一下讓我們過去，走越久越發現，車上真的塞住了，就像堵塞的馬桶。

我們站著思考下一步。我朋友Johnny好像有一點幽閉恐懼症，所以他說他要在彰化下車，再搭下一班，但是我反對，說我要堅持到底，因為怕如果下車了，下一班一定沒有辦法坐上。後來，在彰化很多人下車了，所以我們找辦法過去我們的車廂，慢慢找我們的位子，平靜地坐著，假裝沒看到後面的阻塞。

因為這個經驗，我想，你怎麼判斷一個國家的設備（比如，台鐵）？應該是透過他們最尖峰，最有壓力的時刻才能了解設計得多好。

at [May 22,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/toilet-cloggage-in-on-taiwan-railway.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/toilet-cloggage-in-on-taiwan-railway.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=pinterest)

