## Friday 18 November 2022 {#friday-18-november-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [Prices in Taiwan](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/prices-in-taiwan.html)  {#prices-in-taiwan .list-paragraph}

Prices are interesting and sometimes hard to understand. In Taiwan, it
feels like things are priced completely different to in the West and
I\'m trying to make sense of it.

Category 1: Local goods and services. The cheapest things in Taiwan are
the things I find myself buying most often. Rent; bubble tea, fruit
juice; restaurant food; massages; tour guides; Chinese lessons. I think
these things are cheap because they can\'t be sold abroad for a higher
profit. The only demand is local Taiwanese people. Salaries here are (on
average, I think) about a third of those in America (but since these
important goods are also cheap, it means life is not so bad). My metric,
which I think so far works, is to divide every price by 10. You see,
there\'s 30 NTD to 1 USD. So if you divide the NTD price by 10 and then
compare that price to what you\'d pay in the USD (specifically,
Berkeley/SF) then you can see what\'s reasonable and what\'s ripping you
off.

Category 2: Rich people\'s local goods and services. Some restaurants or
places in Taiwan cater to relatively wealthy clientale. These people may
be making a Western salary or work for an international business in
Taiwan and so their salaries \-- though modest in the West \-- lets them
buy absurdly expensive things in Taiwan. Of course, it\'s all a matter
of expensive. A burger costing 10\$ in the US is sometimes a great deal;
but in Taiwan, it means you\'re living the high life. I\'ve found
foreigner settings are like this; as are stores in Taipei or upscale
establishments in Kaohsiung.

Category 3: Exportable/imported goods. This is where my divide by ten
metric breaks down. Did you know that a small jar of Skippy\'s peanut
butter costs 6 USD here?? Absurd, but I pay it nonetheless. Skippy\'s
peanut butter, iPhones and other gadgets, USB cables, watches,
saxophones, bikes all fall in this upper-tier price-range. They\'re
things that your standard person still needs to buy \-- including
groceries! \-- but I think because it\'s possible to export such
products abroad, they charge standard international prices here
(otherwise everyone would buy their laptops in Taiwan and fly them out
to America later). Some things, like the peanut butter, are even more
expensive here than in America because of shipping fees, I suppose. So
strangely, a grocery store I think is one of the most expensive shops
around (you\'re better off going to a fresh market, where the food is
cheaper because it can\'t be exported abroad).

So there you have it, a little bit about living abroad, pricing strategy
and international trade.

at [November 18,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/prices-in-taiwan.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/prices-in-taiwan.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=pinterest)

### [Inputs and outputs](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/inputs-and-outputs.html)  {#inputs-and-outputs .list-paragraph}

I had a new idea occur to me yesterday as I was biking, so I\'m going to
chew it over here.

I was thinking about the question, \"how do you define success?\"
Everyone has their own definition, of course. But I imagine that most
definitions have something to do with a weighted combination of these
factors:

-   Friendships and community

-   Artistic output

-   Good health and athleticism

-   Legacy (via. children, organizations)

-   Career success or impact (not directed correlated with money)

-   Money (net worth, income)

When I break down success into these aspects, I can more or less imagine
what my goals are. For instance, artistic output: to make music, to be
able to draw or blog and make things that are worth reading or listening
to. With friendships, it\'s to have a lot of cool people around me that
I enjoy being around. That\'s all great.

The point of this blog post is that these things are *outputs* not
*inputs* to life. For instance, you can put a lot of effort into making
friends and search all over town for your people, but it\'s not a given
that you\'ll find them. That depends on the city you live in, what
organizations are around, the personality of your city/town, *in
addition* to your own friend-making mindset. The same thing goes for
money, career success, good health, etc. You can put effort and orient
your life around those things, but that doesn\'t mean necessarily that
you\'ll be \"successful\" in those respects.

It\'s cliche, but a lot of trouble comes when we base our self-worth on
things outside of our control. It\'s cliche and yet, I still find myself
doing it. This person runs a 5k faster than I do; this person earns more
money than me; this person has a more active social life. Of course,
their output may make them look more \"successful\" but you actually may
have been putting in more work!

But what are the inputs to this equation? Inputs are things that we can
directly adjust about our own life. It doesn\'t require help from our
external environments, it just requires you reading, learning, and
digging deep. Not easy, but possible, and within your control. I thought
of three important inputs:

-   Skills

-   Mindset/personality

-   Routine

Let me explain.Â 

Skills. Pretty simple, but it helps to see how this connects to life
outputs. Skills are things like learning a language, computer
programming, mathematics, public speaking. Most people want to learn
skills for some external reason \-- it can help them get a job or pursue
a hobby. Skills grow slowly but I do think that they\'re mostly in your
control. You can learn almost anything from Youtube, reading books
(which you can pirate), etc. With good skills you can advance your
career, make money, produce more artistic content, etc. Of course, there
is some reverse causality; with more money you can hire a coach or
teacher for certain skills. Still, even people with all the money in the
world don\'t learn (say) how to play the piano faster. They maybe just
have more time and focus to dedicate to it.

Mindset. Now this is a hard one, but important. I think your mindset
affects all sorts of things in your life: your resilience, your
persistence with things you want to pursue, your attitude towards
meeting people or maintaining connects. Being a go-getter, being
out-going (when needed) or fully focused on studying (when needed) are
all traits of a good personality (to me), but that depends on what
outputs you\'re orienting towards. A lot of people I think are
successful in companies or in certain jobs because they have a good
mindset for it, and that lets them learn the requisite skills. For
instance, in computer programming you have to have the persistence to
debug and debug until you find the issue. In teaching (my job right
now), you must stay above the whims of every single student and keep the
goal of the lesson in mind. Mindset can be cultivated by reflection,
meditation, reading books, practicing good thought-patterns. But as with
anything we start with a certain mindset given by our parents, teachers,
and peers.

Routine. I\'ve found that routine is important for actually deploying /
growing skills and making use of a good mindset. For instance, you can
have a great mindset and skill at learning a foreign language but if you
don\'t carve out time in your schedule for it regularly, you won\'t
really progress \[see note below\].

I think there\'s a lot of ways that these three things \-- skills,
mindset, and routine \-- factor into your outputs. Too many combinations
to discuss here\... but regardless, the point is that to define
\"success\" you should look at inputs: what you\'re putting into your
life. You may disagree on what exact inputs you believe are important or
relevant to your life but there are some for everybody. Outputs, again,
vary by the person but all of them are too unpredictable. Tracking
something out of your control might make your feel bad, or (worse yet)
give you an inflated ego.

And so going forward I want to thing about my inputs. Am I focusing on
developing skills that I care about and enjoy? Am I cultivating a
positive mindset in my endeavors (social, professional, interest-wise)?
And am I establishing a consistent routine in my life to make use of my
time? Whoosh. Big questions, and I\'m no self-help blogger, so best I
stay away from topics like these.

Note: About time. Time is interesting \-- is it an input or an output?
Some people always are yearning for more time; students, working
professionals, well really anyone. But some people have more time than
they know what to do with, like kids on summer vacation. Time I think
has to be combined with a routine, mindset, or skill you\'re focusing on
to be put to good use. I\'d say time is an environmental factor. At a
given stage in your life, you can\'t really control how much of it you
have. But you can routinize it so that it\'s better structured.

at [November 18,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/inputs-and-outputs.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/inputs-and-outputs.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=pinterest)

