## Friday 26 May 2023 {#friday-26-may-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [不對！](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/using-force.html)  {#不對 .list-paragraph}

I flick my wrist and strike the ball with a satisfying *tut*. *Score, *I
think, but *jìaolìan,* my coach, doesn\'t agree. *Búdùi* he says. Wrong.
He shows me the stroke one more time.

Just about everything in ping pong can be put into the *duì* (correct)
or búdùi (incorrect) classification. My coach is a math teacher at a
*bǔxíbān*, a cram school, which maybe means he\'s especially familiar
with what\'s wrong and right. My footwork is *búdùi* (if you\'re moving
right, you should move the left foot first). My posture is *búdùi*, I\'m
standing too upright. My hand grips the racket completely *búdùi*-ly.
\"The fundamentals of ping pong are very important,\" my coach
unhelpfully adds, and he sends another ball my way.

There are moments, precious few, when I hit the ball in a non-objectible
manner. \"OK,\" he says. *OK* is a special loan-word in Taiwanese
Mandarin \-- in American English it might translate as, \"well done!\"
or \"fantastic!!\" or \"you\'re a star student!!!\" In Chinese, they
don\'t waste the breath.

My coach hits the ball back with startling precision. I put all the
force I can muster on some of the \"OK\" balls but my coach sweeps his
hand back exactly right so I can do it all again. 

In my fourth group lesson I notice my coach playing with his left hand.

\"Coach, you\'re not a leftie, are you??\" 

\"I can do both,\" he says nonchalantly. He explains later, \"I\'m
right-handed, but I realized my form on my right-hand was often *búdùi*,
so I trained with my coach on the left,\" like what he did was the most
sensical thing in the world. \"The fundamentals of ping pong are very
important.\"

at [May 26, 2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/using-force.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/using-force.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=pinterest)

### [Hank and Goliath](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/hank-and-goliath.html)  {#hank-and-goliath .list-paragraph}

The battle to control Hank started long before I was his teacher. My
predessor Bryan found him impossible. Bryan had him through the COVID
online teaching period and eventually found a way to have him sent down
a few English \"levels\", which is how he ended up in my class. Hank was
dumped into my class.

Hank\'s offenses are sometimes minor. But over time they accumulate, and
taking away \"stars\", a little school reward system, doesn\'t do quite
enough. So inspired by my boss I thought that if students do something
pretty bad twice, they just stay after class and write lines.

I held him after class the first time a couple months into teaching. \"I
will not throw balls at my classmates.\" He writes it ten times and we
read it together, ten times. \"Got it, Hank?\" He goes on his way home.
Then, just a couple weeks later, he suddenly was yelling swear words at
someone for losing at Foosball. I held him back again: \"I will not
shout in class.\" Twenty times. 

Once Hank had an intense argument with a boy named Tom over the
ownership of a pen cap. They used all their English possible to argue
and I sent them downstairs to my manager. \"It was the stupidest
argument,\" she told me later. \"Hank doesn\'t even have that type of
pen.\"

Hank finds behavior normal that other kids would never consider. I\'ll
look away for five seconds and Hank will have tackled Eason and they\'ll
be wrestling on the ground. Hank stays after class.

\"Why were you wrestling Eason?\"

\"Eason and I are friends, Teacher! I thought it was fun play.\"

\"I will not wrestle my friends.\" Thirty times.

I\'m not an ardent disciplinarian. Honestly, I was never made to write
lines in school. Part of me detests this inane punishment that seems
like it\'s out of Harry Potter\'s fifth year at Hogwarts. But I also
like that I have some distance from the punishment. Hank can break the
rules and be penalized for it, but that doesn\'t mean he\'s a bad kid.
He\'s like many other kids, just a touch on the hyper-active side. No,
I\'ve never been angry at him, even when he gets two strikes in the
first five minutes of class \-- just maybe exasperated. Some times I\'ve
held him back have actually been rather nice bonding moments. \"So, you
know why you\'re here\...\" Other times he\'s left the room crying, and
I wonder if I\'ve gotten carried away in my pursuit of justice. But over
time, our synergy has improved\... Such that he mostly stays within the
bounds of reason, even if he\'s slamming his whole body again them.

Today I met Hank\'s father. He\'s a well-built man; big like Hank; his
right hand is missing half his pinky. He lives in Chengdu, Sichuan,
China and comes back to Kaohsiung every three months or so. This time he
stopped by his son\'s *buxiban*, worried about his grades are in
decline.

I shake Hank\'s dad\'s hand, honored to meet the man himself. In Chinese
I say, Hank does fine on tests. He\'s sometimes loud, and he sometimes
gets in fights. And he talks kind of funny. But you know sir, Hank\'s an
alright kid.

