## Wednesday 31 January 2024 {#wednesday-31-january-2024 .list-paragraph}

### [2024-01 Semiannual Update](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2024/01/2024-01-semiannual-update.html)  {#semiannual-update .list-paragraph}

Well, a lot of things are going to be changing in the next few months
for me. Notably, I\'m intending to leave Taiwan on May 19th. The reason
for departure is nothing dramatic or decisive. It\'s simply that two
years seemed about right. Two years is the same length as the Peace
Corps, Mormon missionary service, and, for a long time, the Taiwanese
military service. Two years is a substantial amount of time to live in a
place, but it's gone by remarkably fast.

Both Berkeley and Kaohsiung have become adopted homes for me. Home in
the sense that I\'ve gained a fondness for the people, for the geography
(within the city and without), for the way people talk and what they
talk about. I\'ve become accustomed to the weather in Kaohsiung, so much
so that now, it is 11 degrees Celsius (52 F) and I feel like I\'m
freezing my butt off. How bizarre.

In college, however, I more or less had a set end-date. Four years. Too
much longer and you get kicked out. I stuck to the standard time-frame
and then, upon graduation, moved across the Pacific. Although leaving
college was inevitable, leaving the US was not. But moving overseas was
my way of escaping adulthood in America. I thought it too intimidating
to not have all my friends living a bike-ride away from me. I found the
idea of a 9-5pm horrifyingly confining.

Being in Taiwan for this amonut of time has let me cherish and cultivate
my non-work life. Here I\'ve had the leisure to play ping pong, strum
the guitar, run and bike, read and listen to podcasts, play dungeons and
dragons (a new, dorky but good past-time!), and catch up on Pixar
movies, to me, is an investment in life-long happiness. Cultivating
activities that bring me calm is critical for when the going gets rough.
And teaching English, honestly, has been everything I hoped. I love the
dynamism and excitement of teaching kids. It's a job with few stresses,
mostly just joyful moments. Part of me even worries if I'll ever find
work I love as much as this again.

But I'm hoping to move back after the summer and look for what scared me
away in the first place: a "normal" job. A life that involves an office,
early morning wake-ups, preparing my own meals again. When I graduated
college, settling into that sort of life felt like the beginning of the
end. Entering the work-force was, in my caricaturing point of view, the
start of a long, tiring slog towards retirement (and then death). I\'ve
changed my perspective. Now I believe I have the skills to make life
more meaningful, even if it\'s built around a more routine job. For
instance, how to make friends in a new city, how to explore activities I
want to do -- the things you're meant to learn in your twenties. So I'm
hoping that when I move back to the US, life is a little more flexible
and lively than I had originally thought. A "normal" job can be
rewarding, grounding even. And it's true, after all, that stellar pieces
of music, the greatest books, the blaze-trailing politicians and
business-people mostly get their work done at a normal office. I believe
I can work like that too. Staying in Kaohsiung too long, I\'d worry
won\'t be living up to my potential.

After leaving in May I\'m going to do some traveling. I\'ll write
another time about where and how it goes. The primary goal is actually
not to see new places. Obviously that is part of travel, and I look
forward to that. But in truth, traveling is an exercise in becoming more
of a *searcher* rather than a *planner*. A *planner* is what I am, as
much as I loathe to say so. I schedule things in advance, iron out the
details, and feel a grating discomfort when the plans change. Creating
plans is like a religion to me. It applies in all aspects of my life:
what I do in my future, what I\'m doing in a week, how I bike to work.
Often, even how I write a blogpost (you might be able to tell that this
blog post is more train of consciousness). In most cases, planning in
good -- it helps me feel more organized, more in control of a situation
and more relaxed. The problem, though, is that because this is so deeply
ingrained in my psyche, when something doesn\'t go according to plan,
it's deeply distressing. I'm thrown in a loop and fumble around. That
is, until I concoct a new plan.

I was talking to my friend Truman recently. Ten years ago, he
hitch-hiked from Europe through Russia and China and back to Taiwan. The
journey and voyages took eighteen months, and he had a total of only
\$8,000 to spend. Many nights he pitched a tent by a road-side or relied
on the charity of a stranger. In reflecting on this journey, he said
that when you\'re traveling on a shoe-string budget, there\'s simply no
use in worrying about the unknowns. Even when it comes to important
things -- which trucker picks you up, what you eat next meal, when
you'll next sleep on a bed -- what life will look like can't be known in
advance. Worrying about the future is useless. All you can do is pick a
direction, and focus on the next choice at hand.

I\'m trying to channel that ethos (not necessarily Truman\'s particular
methods) in travel and the subsequent job search. It involves some
beliefs. Belief that things will work out. Belief that I will be okay if
it doesn\'t. Belief in the people I don\'t yet know who might help me
along the way.

\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

**Happy New Year, Western and Chinese.** This year is the year of the
dragon which means I was born two Zodiac cycles ago. One\'s fortune is
actually inauspicious on this year and so according to tradition in
Taiwan, you\'re meant to do some extra prayer and stuff to appease those
folks up above. I hope I get around to it! Oh, and it\'s also my golden
birthday (meaning the date in April, 24, matches my age, 24). How
curious!

This time my update reads more like a journal entry. I hope you enjoy a
slightly different form and seeing my style of thinking. As always, **I
love to hear everyone\'s updates in return**, even if (especially if!)
it\'s been a while.

**I have a question for the lovely people who read this blog.** I was
thinking about adulting \-- something I\'ve been trying to do for the
past few years. Well, it\'s a work in progress, so I want to ask you for
your thoughts. How do you know when you\'re an adult? Have there been
any critical junctures in your life where you thought \-- \"wow, I\'m
really adulting\", or conversely, \"wow, adulting is so much harder than
I thought\"? If you have some of those stories please share them with me
and perhaps I can include it in the next update.

Love,

Rohan.

PS. The jazz album *補習BAND* from last May is out. Music
[here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLmNtQG2epzFG2PwtDTz4U9OVDCsiJGG8)
and post-mortem
[here](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/band-album-is-out.html).

PPS. A website redesign is in the works. You'll know it when you see it.

PPPS. Some people notice grammar mistakes in these updates. A+ for
participation!

at [January 31,
2024](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2024/01/2024-01-semiannual-update.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2024/01/2024-01-semiannual-update.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4767283134943167397&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4767283134943167397&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4767283134943167397&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4767283134943167397&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4767283134943167397&target=pinterest)

## Friday 26 January 2024 {#friday-26-january-2024 .list-paragraph}

### [iggy\'s friends](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2024/01/iggys-friends.html)  {#iggys-friends .list-paragraph}

*Yeah, I\'ve become really good friends with Iggy\'s sister. But it\'s
weird.*

Why\'s it weird? Are you dating?

*No. It\'s just weird because Iggy\'s dead. *

*Iggy\'s friends are just really nice. If I died and you came and met my
friends, you\'d find out they\'re all dick heads. That\'s just the
truth. But Iggy\'s friends are good people.*

*And this guy Oscar, you played basketball with him and Iggy that one
time. I thought he was more reserved and I\'m more out-going, you know,
so we never really got on. But since Iggy passed, I don\'t know, we\'ve
been hanging out a bunch, talked till 3am one time. About Iggy and other
things. That\'s the thing, you know. You only need one thing in common
to become friends. *

*Me and his mates, we organized a football match for him. There was like
a hundred people, playing and watching. Some people met me there and
they said, \"you\'re John, aren\'t you??\" They were like so excited to
meet me because Iggy had talked about me. And they knew about my life
actually, just because of what Iggy had said. And that made me happy.*

at [January 26,
2024](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2024/01/iggys-friends.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2024/01/iggys-friends.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1472468180979968857&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1472468180979968857&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1472468180979968857&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1472468180979968857&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1472468180979968857&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 26 December 2023 {#tuesday-26-december-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [TGINC and other assorted thoughts](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/12/tginc-and-other-assorted-thoughts.html)  {#tginc-and-other-assorted-thoughts .list-paragraph}

**Thank god it\'s not Christmas.** As a cram school teacher, nothing is
worse than the back-to-back holidays of Halloween, Thanksgiving, and
Christmas. In public schools here, they don\'t celebrate any of those
(the Chinese holidays are more sensibly spread out throughout the year).
The consequence is that cram schools, and foreigners like me, end up
being the representatives. It makes me delighted not to hear \"Jingle
Bells\" in the PXMart and wonder how my students will do it when
they\'re caroling. Hats off to my colleague, Teacher Phil, for directing
a stellar matinee performance of *A Christmas Carol* with his class of
2nd graders.

**Raj Chetty comes to mind.** His
[research](https://www.harvardmagazine.com/2010/10/kindergarten-matters),
published a couple years ago, is famous for
[overmining](https://www.wordhippo.com/what-is/the-opposite-of/undermine.html)
the importance of kindergarten teachers. According to his data, an
experienced kindergarten teacher in the US makes their students\' adult
salaries raise by \$1,000 per kid. What do you learn in kindergarten?
Nothing concrete \-- things more like life skills, problem solving, and
emotional regulation. Gives a little bit more meaning to what I\'m doing
as I\'m shouting new English words at my youngest students.

**A neat look at the [news](https://newsdejavu.github.io/).** Powered by
an LLM, of course.

**No place like Kaohsiung.** I went to Taipei to show my brother around
Taiwan. We arrived in Kaohsiung and I felt at home right away. There\'s
no place like it. The vastness of Taipei is exhausting to navigate, and
so is the density/intensity of the people. My brother didn\'t like the
crowdedness, and in hindsight, I don\'t either.

**A whacky website for ping pong rackets.** This store in Taipei had the
best deals on ping pong rackets. I went there in person and got my
racket and rubbers for half the price I believe I\'d get anywhere else.
I asked and the store guy said the prices are the same online, but
Jesus, I mean look at [this
website](http://www.tabletennis.com.tw/index_1.htm)! No wonder their
ping pong deals are a well-coveted secret.

**Linux vs. Windows and conformity.** If it was up to me the world
standard operating system for budget would be Linux, not Windows. Why?
It\'s faster, doesn\'t have bloatware/spyware, and more easily
customizable for your purposes. There\'s also political reasons \--
it\'s open-source and not controlled by the monopoly that is Microsoft.
But I\'m sadly typing on this on Windows. Why? Well, I worked one summer
for a company remotely, and they sent me a Windows laptop. As an intern,
I\'m not about to wipe the OS and put Linux on it, so I acclimatized,
even though I didn\'t like it. But it got hard to switch back and forth
between my personal Linux computer and the work Windows computer. So
when I got a new personal computer, I didn\'t bother putting Linux on
it, even though it would be superior. That said, neither option is bad
\-- I\'ve gotten used to the Windows shortcuts, and most of what I do on
my computer is through a web browser, anyways. That said, the power of
inertia is real.

**[How to Believe in
Yourself](https://hiddenbrain.org/podcast/how-to-believe-in-yourself/)
on Hidden Brain.** I listened to this podcast about how people can
achieve their aspirations even if they were stuck at some point in life.
The secret? Sometimes, going forward means taking a step back and
finding a slightly different direction. This metaphor reminds me of
watching Olympic rock climbing, a fascinating example of seeing how
people problem solve under pressure. The other thing mentioned in the
podcast is that sometimes, doing irrelevant, leisure activities can let
ideas germinate in the back of your mind; or, you might even build your
confidence playing something like *Words with Friends* or *Settlers of
Catan* that you feel newly motivated to confront other challenges ahead
of you. In conclusion, check out the podcast \-- I wouldn\'t write about
it if it wasn\'t worth the listen.

**A neat look at the [news](https://newsdejavu.github.io/).** Powered by
an LLM, of course.

at [December 26,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/12/tginc-and-other-assorted-thoughts.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/12/tginc-and-other-assorted-thoughts.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2014482982013230956&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2014482982013230956&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2014482982013230956&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2014482982013230956&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2014482982013230956&target=pinterest)

## Monday 20 November 2023 {#monday-20-november-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [abiding interests and discipline](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/abiding-interests-and-discipline.html)  {#abiding-interests-and-discipline .list-paragraph}

 [Abiding interests]{.underline}

Next month I\'m making a trip to Taipei, and I\'m intending to stop by
the Tang Bridge table tennis store. A fellow ping pong player at my club
says it\'s the best place to get high quality rubber and paddles in all
of Taiwan. 

Buying a ping pong paddle can get pricey if you\'re going for something
nice. The wood itself may be 100\$, but the rubber can be just as much
(on each side!), and needs to be changed every few months. But then,
many hobbies can get just expensive. Buying video games, musical
instruments, nice paints for drawings, you name it. If you like
something then you can find a way to spend money on it.

Ping pong is something I\'m never going to make money doing. But for me
it\'s an abiding interest. I\'ve liked it since when I was little, and
enjoy playing basically whenever I can.

But how do you know if a hobby is like that? I once bought a jump rope,
thinking it\'d an uber-efficient form of aerobic exercise, and you
don\'t even need to leave the house. But on the other hand, running is
an abiding interest I barely spend any money on. Maybe new shoes every
year. But it\'s done wonders for my mental and physical health.
Somewhere in between is my expensive saxophone. I\'ve had it for nine
years, but have only regularly practiced for about half that time.
Still, music is an abiding interest of mine (on this note, I just heard
[this](https://open.spotify.com/track/2uKoll2LJ2jvlH1uCyuzEo) excellent
saxophone quartet rendition of *Nimrod* by Elgar).

[Discipline]{.underline}

I\'m climbing Monkey Mountain here in Kaohsiung with my friend Tim and
his 7-year-old daughter Mia (names modified to preserve anonymity).
Mia\'s happy for the first fifteen minutes; she\'s thrilled to be
climbing up again, and excited for the tea station at the top. Then she
wants a break, so we take one, and head in a direction that looks good.
Turns out the way we chose isn\'t the one where you can find tea. Mia\'s
furious. \"I hate you, Daddy!\" she cries. Tim\'s disappointed too, to
be fair. Who doesn\'t want tea? He tells her, \"you weren\'t going to
drink the tea anyways.\" Mia\'s mood is like a yo-yo. Tim chocks it up
to low blood-sugar. As we\'re climbing down, Tim promises Mia an
ice-lolly at the bottom of the mountain if we get there without her
complaining. She perks up at the thought, and is happy on the way down.
\"Daddy, I can\'t decide which ice-lolly to get\" she says. Tim says,
\"that\'s what life\'s about, honey \-- making decisions.\"

A couple months ago, a girl Yo-yo was going to join my beginning English
class. She\'s 6 years old, like her to-be classmates, and just entered
first grade. But she cried incessantly at the thought of leaving her
mother. Her mother bought popcorn for the entire class, hoping that
Yo-yo would get a warm welcome when she eventually came upstairs. But
none of the begging or bribing was a match for Yo-yo\'s insistence not
to go learn English. Her mother said she would come back next year.

The teachers at my school said that Yo-yo is actually a real princess.
She gets whatever she wants and when she doesn\'t, she cries until she
does. One solution to Yo-yo isn\'t more bribing. By giving more rewards,
you\'ll only encounter the hedonic treadmill, and have to heighten the
stakes later on. But more discipline can make it clear that crying as a
tactic doesn\'t work. Discipline \-- ie. reprimanding when your kid
isn\'t doing the right thing \-- makes the default much easier to
attain. It\'s tugs at the heart-strings when kids whine or are upset,
but as a parent, sometimes you gotta do what you don\'t want to do.

Or that\'s at least what the disciplinarians say. And I wouldn\'t have
thought it before I started teaching, but now I\'m inclined to agree.
When you\'re an adult, discipline is an ethic you build inside yourself.
Will kids who were bribed with sugary snacks have more addictive
personalities when they\'re older? Will they have less tenacity when
they\'re confronted with a problem? Probably. Taiwanese parents are
notoriously strict, but Taiwanese people are incredibly disciplined. It
shows in the quality of service here. But on the other hand, kids who
are disciplined too much may develop perfectionism, chronic anxiety, or
imposter syndrome. Or who knows, I\'m really just spit-balling here. All
I can say for certain is I\'m sure glad I\'m not a parent.

[加油]{.underline}

Well, I\'m learning guitar on my own, and a string broke. I got the
guitar used, so maybe it\'s about time to change the strings anyways. I
got a pack of strings and started with the one that was broken. Then,
all of a sudden as I\'m installing the new one for that size, it breaks
too! Sigh. Learning things on your has it\'s drawbacks.

at [November 20,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/abiding-interests-and-discipline.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/abiding-interests-and-discipline.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5217291029791162313&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5217291029791162313&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5217291029791162313&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5217291029791162313&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5217291029791162313&target=pinterest)

## Monday 13 November 2023 {#monday-13-november-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [補習BAND the album is out](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/band-album-is-out.html)  {#補習band-the-album-is-out .list-paragraph}

My first album, 補習BAND, is now released! Here\'s the link:

### [**https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLmNtQG2epzFG2PwtDTz4U9OVDCsiJGG8**](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLmNtQG2epzFG2PwtDTz4U9OVDCsiJGG8)

I am honored to play with my band-mates. Noé and Etienne both are
conservatory graduates, and Leon\'s been playing piano since he before
could talk.

In the beginning, we had no idea we wanted to record an album. We just
wanted to play jazz. We met up weekly and just threw out standards we
had played and liked. Like our music, the idea for recording was made up
spontaneously. Noé and Leon were leaving Taiwan soon, so we wanted a
record of the music we made together. We tightened up our arrangements,
honed our improvisations, and recorded on June 4th, 2023.

This album isn\'t perfect but it\'s something. For me, it serves as a
record of where I am in my journey as a musician. Some parts are nice,
and some parts make me groan. I know it\'ll be a piece of art I look
back on in many years and think: wow, I\'ve come a long way.

**[Q&A:]{.underline}**

**How should you listen to this music?** I recommend listening while
you\'re washing dishes, doing Sudoku or going for a walk.

**How do I pronounce 補習BAND? And what does that mean?** It\'s
pronounced \"boo\" \"she\" \"band\". Like \"booo\" as in Halloween,
\"she\" as in the female pronoun, and \"band\" meaning music group. At
some point, we four ensemble members were all working at cram schools.
The Chinese for that is 補習班 (\"boo\" \"she\" \"ban\"). So the album
title is a bilingual homonym.

**Why is each song so long?** Jazz music is jam-packed with musical
content. The \"head\" of a song is played at the beginning, but that may
take just half a minute. The bulk of the time is spent on solos. Each
soloist uses the head as a basis for an improvisation however long they
want. This makes jazz especially hard to get right on a recording. Then,
the head is played again and the song concludes.

**Why isn\'t it on Spotify?** Many of these songs are still under
copyright. Which means to put on Spotify or even Bandcamp, you need to
buy a \"mechanical license\" and pay dues for every listen. We didn\'t
feel like doing that. Our main goal was for friends and family to be
able to listen to the music easily. In the future, I might put more time
writing my own tunes so I can record and release those instead.

**Are you still playing with your bandmates?** Sadly, no! Leon is in
California and Noé has moved back to France. Etienne and I are still in
Kaohsiung, and we play ping pong on the regular. Life is ephemeral. So
too is the syzygy required for music creation.

**Who recorded and edited the album?** Vincent Tsai graciously helped
record, edit and master the recording. We also used his studio space for
rehearsals. He works as a composer for some video games and is a sound
technician at different venues in Kaohsiung City.

**Will you make more albums? What are you working on right now?** I
loved making this album. It as fascinating to be part of the creative
process from start to finish and see what professional musicians do on
the regular. So I certainly want to do it in the future. For now,
though, I\'m on a break with the saxophone. I\'ve been learning guitar
and singing in the evenings. I\'m sure my woodwind life will pick up
again when the time is right.

**What\'s your favorite part?** These are all jazz standards \--
classics in the literature of jazz music \-- that I love. And we put
great effort into all of them. I\'ve written some additional commentary
below.

-   *All of Me.* I play flute! Flute is hard.

-   *All the Things You Are.* A real famous standard. Etienne does a
    > great intro on guitar and play-through of the head.

-   *Bye-Bye Blackbird.* A great choice by Leon. It\'s upbeat and jives!

-   *Days of Wine and Roses.* A truly beautiful intro, Bill Evans-style,
    > by Leon on the piano. I jump in during the last minute.

-   *Footprints.* This song is written by a saxophonist, Wayne Shorter,
    > so it\'s big \"footprints\" to step into. I\'m proud of my tone
    > and phrasing for the lyrical head. It\'s a great song to improvise
    > on!

-   *Four on Six.* This song is groovy! I don\'t play on it; felt like a
    > rhythm section thing.

-   *On Green Dolphin Street.* I loved this song. It was an intense
    > soloing moment. You\'ll hear some screeching and loud multiphonics
    > on my horn in both takes. I loved playing off Noé\'s drum crashes.
    > My one critique of myself is that it wasn\'t loud and abrasive
    > enough! So I\'ll be working on that.

-   *Just Friends*. Leon sings the head and scats on this! I haven\'t
    > accompanied a singer on the saxophone before (you can probably
    > tell). I enjoyed the song and felt energized soloing! It has
    > familiar chords and structure which made it easy.

-   *Line for Lyons.* A really fantastic tune. Probably my favorite head
    > in this whole set. Happy to sink in the pocket with Etienne.
    > Guitar + saxophone is a great combo.

-   *My Little Suede Shoes*. It\'s a classic by Charlie Parker. A
    > catchy, relaxing head. My mother listens to it so much, I\'m happy
    > to have my own version out there!

-   *Sandu*. Another song where the head is a duet with Etienne and
    > myself. I played this song for an audition way back in high
    > school, but actually struggled with the (relatively simple,
    > blue-form) melody. It swings great and is bluesey. Great soloing
    > by Etienne and me I think. Worth listening the whole way through!

-   *On the Sunny Side of the Street.* I do a slow intro on this song,
    > and sing towards the end. We were going for a \"New
    > Orleans\"-style blues towards the end. Hence my singing in the
    > crackled voice.

at [November 13,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/band-album-is-out.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/band-album-is-out.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3901196335287877643&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3901196335287877643&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3901196335287877643&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3901196335287877643&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3901196335287877643&target=pinterest)

## Thursday 9 November 2023 {#thursday-9-november-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Wayne Hsiung, CODA, Lin Yun-ju, and other assorted thoughts](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/wayne-hsiung-coda-lin-yun-ju-and-other.html)  {#wayne-hsiung-coda-lin-yun-ju-and-other-assorted-thoughts .list-paragraph}

**I like this format.** It certainly doesn\'t get my blog more views,
but that\'s not the point. Some thoughts come to me and I need to write
them down. If they\'re on my blog, rather than in my journal, I\'m far
more likely to look over them in the future. And a thought is best in
its pithiest form. Why write a whole blog post for something when it can
just be a paragraph?

That\'s not to say everything should be converted into a TikTok video.
Or that every book should just be a series of articles. Many messages
are better as a train of ideas.

**Hats off to Wayne Hsiung.** His recent blogpost from prison is
[here](https://blog.simpleheart.org/p/the-transformative-power-of-suffering),
and here\'s my summary:

*50sq-ft studio apartment in Sonoma County. Fully furnished, natural
lighting, minimalist design. Amenities include laundry, vegan catering,
and pet fruit flies. *

I have to say, the worst part of prison seems to be the solitude.
There\'s nothing like being alone with yourself and your thoughts.
That\'s the real prison. Out in the world, you can distract yourself
with work, people, nights out. But in a prison cell, you have nothing
but yourself. Some days I\'m stuck at home with nothing to do and feel
bored. But I have the infinite books, TV, and music; I can call anyone I
want at any time. Wayne\'s leisure is confined to thirty minutes a day
to fit in calls and library visits. I\'m sure he can get a lot of
writing done. 

**Should I not eat vegan junkfood?** My friend Truman recently made me
think more about adopting the whole-food plant-based diet. Truman is
vegan and avoids basically all oil, saturated fat, and GMO foods. All I
can say for now is I\'m thinking about it. In Taiwan, I don\'t cook my
own food, and it\'d be a hassle to start. But he made some compelling
points. I wonder what the difference is, though, between having a bit of
oil and cutting it all out. I\'ve heard qualitative descriptions, but
not quantitative ones. I agree doing Michael Gregor\'s Daily Dozen and
avoid vegan junk food is better. But I just don\'t know *how much*
better, and whether it\'s worth the hassle. It\'s both an empirical
question and a judgement call about convenience vs. longetivity.

***CODA* is a great movie.** I watched it last weekend and loved it. It
had me tearing up! But was so uplifting. I also learned a lot about deaf
life and culture. My new favorite movie? Good song in it, too, *Both
Sides Now* by Joni Mitchell.

**1-1 ping pong coaching has outsized impact.** Playing with a coach in
ping pong, you get lots of feedback, fast. I\'ll do one movement and
Coach will know exactly where I\'m going wrong. Today we focused on my
forehand drive. It\'s a shot where you need to put your hand down as
soon as you know you\'re about to do it, so you have time to execute the
full swing. That feedback is fantastic to get. It super-charges my next
week or two of playing with things to think about.

**Lin Yun-ju plays Ma Long in the World Table Tennis Championships.**
Lin Yun-ju, representing Taiwan, beats Ma Long (the Chinese world #1)
four games to one. An incredible match. Incredible to see two
world-class players in such intense combat. It reminds me of Federer\'s
[decade long fall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federer–Nadal_rivalry)
to Nadal in tennis. Is this the beginning of such a saga? Lin Yun-ju
keeps his cool; Ma Long doesn\'t take defeat well.

at [November 09,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/wayne-hsiung-coda-lin-yun-ju-and-other.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/11/wayne-hsiung-coda-lin-yun-ju-and-other.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3110371231121805896&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3110371231121805896&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3110371231121805896&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3110371231121805896&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3110371231121805896&target=pinterest)

## Friday 27 October 2023 {#friday-27-october-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Core Memories](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/core-memories.html)  {#core-memories .list-paragraph}

Here are some stories about my students that I think are cute. They
don\'t necessarily have a great resolution or take-away message**.**
That\'s why I\'m sharing them on my blog.

**Core Memories**

Yesterday my boss brought in over a hundred cookies for the kids to
decorate at school.

\"You made all these?\" I asked.

\"Yeah. I stacked them in the oven. It made me feel like I had a purpose
while I was watching NBA.\"

\"You know, I remember decorating cookies at school when I was 6, too,\"
I recounted. \"We were learning fractions or something. I guess it was a
great activity, since I still remember it, and I\'m 23 now.\" 

\"Corree memories. We\'re making core memories here,\" he replied. I
chuckled.

**Crickets**

A couple months ago, I had my last class with a group of students I
taught in the afternoons. Three hours every Wednesday and Friday
afternoon.

Tracy was a star student of that class. She was goofy and fun at
breaktime. She loved songs like *Belle* (from Beauty and the Beast) and
*We Don\'t Talk About Bruno* (from Enchanto) so much that she cherished
the sheet with lyrics and told me to play it in one of our first
classes. She made up new games that would combine leapfrog and Jenga
blocks to play with her friends. And she\'d patiently guide her
classmate Owen through his homework.

When the kids moved classes, Tracy was in an evening class with teacher
Bryan. The only other classmate was a rambunctious boy York. I\'m
friendly with Bryan \-- he\'s tall, Mexican-American guy, and a good
teacher. It\'s a couple months after this transition. I ask Bryan one
Wednesday evening if I can stop by his class.

\"Sure,\" he says. \"But they\'re deadly quiet. See if you can get them
to talk.\"

I go in with a ghoul mask. \"YARRHGGHHH!!\" *Crickets.* 

I see York, and Tracy a couple seats down the line.

\"York, how you doing??\" 

\"Teacher, give me!\" He points to the mask. I put it on his face.

I turn to Tracy and ask, \"Tracy \-- how are you??\"

*Crickets.* Tracy doesn\'t talk. She\'s hidden behind her mask, crouched
in her seat. She doesn\'t even look at me. It\'s like we had a bad
break-up and she\'s giving me the silent treatment.

Later, I see her again waiting for a pickup outside the school. 

\"Tracy!\" Another chance. \"What will you be for Halloween?\" Kids are
better at responding to direct questions.

\"Hmmm, I don\'t know\... Maybe a princess?\" she responds.

\"That\'s a lovely idea!\" Then I whisper, \"Teacher Bryan\'s class is
so *quiet*. Isn\'t it?\"

\"Yes.\" Tracy says. \"It\'s because\... Teacher Bryan is scared.\"

\"Teacher Bryan is scary?\" I clarify. The words *scary* and *scared*
are easy to confuse.

She nods, \"yes. Scary.\"

I assure her it\'ll be okay. I can understand \-- with class in the
evening, a new teacher, new classmates, and only York tying her back to
her previous English life, it\'s a big change. Teacher Bryan isn\'t
scary to me, but maybe if you\'re 1/3 of his height, and have a much
quieter voice, he is.

I wonder if we all go through these changes growing up. I remember being
naughty and goofy as a little kid. Then, in middle school and high
school, I became reserved and less confident. For me, it was a product
of the social environment I was in. I vauled excelling in academics over
having lots of fun with my friends. And now, maybe I\'m a combination of
both those states. I believe the bright, fun Tracy will shine in English
again one day.

**He runs everyday**

\"Teacher, my father wants to know how many km you run. He\'s a runner
too,\" my student Brody tells me.

I met Brody\'s dad at an open house some time ago. I thought he was
pretty cool. Brody\'s a great kid, and you\'re telling me his dad runs,
too!? An inspiration. 

\"I run 5, or 6, or 7 km. Does your dad run every day?\"

\"Yes,\" says Brody. \"Wait, no. He runs every week.\"

\"That\'s a big difference!\" 

Another student, Jerry, is a fast runner too. \"Teacher, I run every
year,\" he says jokingly. 

**Multi-lingual School**

I thought I\'d have an upper-level do a project running a political
campaign. I dreamt up some requirements: a poster and a speech. I taught
some key words: *presidential campaign, political ideology.*

My students are surprisingly into it. They\'re excited by the idea of
crafting their own party name, logo, and policies.

During work time, I realize some of the students are sitting on their
butts. I take the role of back-seat project manager. While Linda\'s
drawing on the posters, I tell Sam and Tina they should be writing
better policies. 

Momo, another student, wants to speak Mandarin. Because of our immersive
English program, I\'ve only heard her speak words and fragments in her
native tongue. But then suddenly in Chinese, her words come tumbling out
\-- she wants her policy to be a multi-lingual school where kids can
speak any language they want like Japanese or or Korean English or
Chinese, like a bilingual program, but multi-lingual. She\'s excited and
expressing her creativity! I\'ve never seen her talk like this. And I\'m
suddenly unprepared how to support her idea. I simply tell her how to
spell the word \"languages\" and that she should write down her idea.
Thank god I don\'t teach actual humanities, and that suffices as a
response.

at [October 27,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/core-memories.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/core-memories.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3857965130343532241&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3857965130343532241&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3857965130343532241&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3857965130343532241&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3857965130343532241&target=pinterest)

## Monday 9 October 2023 {#monday-9-october-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Chainsaws and chuckles](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/chainsaws-and-chuckles.html)  {#chainsaws-and-chuckles .list-paragraph}

When your mouth is numbed, your body can do remarkable things. You can
sit in the dental chair and see the miniature chainsaw going inside you.
You can sit still as a wrench is fixed on your tooth and it twists,
twists, and all you feel is a slight cranking of your jaw. You can snort
with laughter (and concern) at the fact that surgery is an art more than
a science. You can wonder thirty minutes in whether the dentist is
pulling out the wrong tooth, but then think that it\'s too late to ask.
You can feel blood trickling down your throat and not know whether they
actually nicked your tongue and are just good at covering it up. You can
shout \"nice catch!\" when the third and last shard of your wisdom tooth
falls out into your throat, but the dentist technician catches it with a
heroic use of suction. You can marvel at how it only cost 50 NTD to get
your mouth sliced open. You can go home right after and put your
detached tooth right in the fridge, where it now belongs.

at [October 09,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/chainsaws-and-chuckles.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/chainsaws-and-chuckles.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7200862437478594670&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7200862437478594670&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7200862437478594670&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7200862437478594670&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7200862437478594670&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 4 October 2023 {#wednesday-4-october-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [澎湖 The Penghu Islands](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/penghu-islands.html)  {#澎湖-the-penghu-islands .list-paragraph}

I went to Penghu this weekend. It's my new favorite place in Taiwan, so
here are some memories from the places I went to.\
 \
 ![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image1.jpeg){width="1.8958333333333333in"
height="1.8194444444444444in"}\
\
As a preface, I had a fair amount of anticipation for this trip. Even
the map of Penghu reminds me of a Pokemon game. The island is mostly
naturer, and scaled so that you can bike from Magong City to Shiyu
Township in just 3-4 hours. So reasonable, but not so small.

In every part of Penghu, you\'re not so far from the water. Boats and
bridges are essential forms of transport in the Penghu islands. Bridges
connect the main island that Magong is on to Baisha Township, and the
relatively new Penghu Great Bridge (1970) connects Baisha to Shiyu. For
the other adorably small islands, you have to take a boat.

It all makes Penghu so much more *lang4man4* (romantic) than I even
thought it would.\
 \
**馬公 Magong**. Though Magong is a city, the buildings are low and the
people are kind. There's a Poya, 50 Lan, tons of 7-Elevens like
everywhere else in Taiwan. There's also numerous lovely vegetarian
places. I had a solid meal at a Loving Hut. There's a vegan breakfast
place near the ferry port that sells sandwiches and *fantuan* (rice
balls). Two times I went to a buffet-style restaurant, which is also
all-vegan and open every day! \
\
My friends, Don, Lily and Truman and I all went to a wonderful vegan
late-night tea shop. They're open till midnight and rest on Wednesdays.
They have awesome noodles, a friendly
![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image2.jpeg){width="1.4930555555555556in"
height="1.125in"}*laoban*, and great books upstairs about all sorts of
spiritual subjects.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image3.jpeg){width="1.625in"
height="1.2222222222222223in"}I went to a museum about early life in
Penghu. I went by myself and I\'m glad I did, because I go through
museums at a blitz-pace (1 hour for 2 floors). I learned that Penghu has
archeological remains that date even before Taiwan. But most people
didn\'t settle in Penghu because they realized it\'s damn hard to grow
anything there when it\'s so windy in the winter. Most people made
voyages to greener pastures in Kaohsiung or Pingtung. Fruits and
vegetables are still mostly shipped to Penghu from Kaohsiung.  

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image4.jpeg){width="0.9375in"
height="1.2430555555555556in"}

Another night, Don, Lily and I biked around. We saw a very tall statue
of Mazu or the Buddha or Dao-incarnation or something. And we also saw
the end of a rocking concert. 

 

People in Penghu are willing to chat and chat. My friend Truman was
especially good at this. There's no rush on Taiwan's outlying islands.
Magong provides a hub for the collection that is Penghu, but at a
relaxed pace.\
 \
**湖西 Husi**. Also on the same island as Magong. I went to this place
on my last full day. I had a guy staying in my hostel called Mumin. He
was really into kite surfing. Most people come to Penghu during the
summer to avoid the fierce winds that come in the winter. But for a kite
surfer, Penghu in the winter is the perfect place to hone your craft.
It's apparently the best in Taiwan, and even draws international
attention.\
\
Mumin invited me and Truman to go out to Husi with him and witness some
real kite-surfing in action. Truman was hoping to join, but it turns out
that kitesurfing isn't something you learn in an afternoon. It took
Mumin 3-4 years of kitesurfing on the weekends when he lived in Japan to
get to the point where he actually could. That's because in most places,
kitesurfing is possible only occasionally -- the winds have to be strong
and pointed inland (so you're not dangerously drawn out into the sea).
Kitesurfing is also rather expensive to get started. It costs about
6000-7000USD to buy a decent kite and board. And lessons can be almost
100USD an hour (at least with the people Mumin knew). Truman was a
little scared off. I admired the kitesurfing from afar but had little
desire to participate.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image5.jpeg){width="1.6041666666666667in"
height="1.2083333333333333in"}[ ![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image6.jpeg){width="1.6458333333333333in"
height="1.2361111111111112in"}](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEimROjYy8mAHdlXRPYLwkY3_1S437oxWIMUkdO1mm_0AOrLXPVtkC7ZFHEbr6Nyl-U_HUgPSvV-EmcgQ8ixAEz5SqyfetyKdWQK5we8NQRAKBldBK3fQ5lBsSE24FXchOC5UqwkWmtlbIlAyX2vrkfEsHbiFw1HAmEgzcBbZLLoXxqXDzW0QmTCv-3Jbns)

On his break from the waves, Mumin told me about his life. He\'s
Taiwanese and grew up in Taipei, but lived in America for 10 years doing
college and his masters. Then he worked as a tour guide, then tour-bus
driver in LA for a while. As a bus driver he met his to-be-wife, who is
Japanese, and they stayed in touch across the Pacific ocean. He
eventually moved back to Taiwan. It was then that he found a job working
for the US government gathering intelligence through open-source
research in Mandarin/Chinese. The job was a little dry. As someone not
of American nationality, he's not able to get security clearance for
anything cool. But his information gathering contributed to the
intelligence of the CIA. He worked alongside Americans who were highly
proficient in Chinese and Japanese, some from the Mormon church. He was
able to be placed in Japan, but being on the US military base, he didn't
have to know Japanese. He says that job was custom made for him. Now, he
works part-time as a contracter. He spends the winter season in Penghu
and the other half of the year in Japan with his wife.\
\
**白沙和鳥嶼 Baisha and Niaoyu**. Truman have gotten this word of this
festival on an island
called [Niaoyu](https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-tw/鳥嶼福德宮). You have to
take a boat from a spot in Baisha and take a 20-minute boat ride to get
there. But the amount of 熱鬧 (*re4nao4*, liveliness) apparently was
unparalleled. Truman had been to a similar festival before and was
excited to go.

So my first day in Penghu, biked over to meet Truman at the dock and
catch the next boat over. We had gotten the timings wrong so waited an
hour for the next ride. When it did actually come, it turned out to be
reserved for Penghu residents. Apparently, so many people were going to
Niaoyu to watch the *re4nao4 \--* the event was called \"brother
ceremony\" that they couldn\'t let outsiders in just yet. We decided to
try again the next day.\
\
The next day we were successful in getting on the boat. It was in fact
due to the kindness, or sympathy, of the lady manning the dock. She saw
we had come two days in a row, eager as ever to get to this event, and
so saved us have two seats. We got to Niaoyu island after much
anticipation.\
\
The Brother Ceremony was one of the most bizarre religious events I've
ever seen. There were bright, dyed fireworks outside the temple and loud
cracking noises from the detonations. The speakers from the temple could
be heard literally throughout the island. The temple was crowded with
devotees from Niaoyu itself but also other nearby islands. Maybe that
has something to do with the "brother" part of the Brother Ceremony.

 

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image7.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

Truman and I pushed our way through the crowd. It wasn't hard because
people were sapped from the force of the Penghu sun. Inside the temple
were three men dressed in red and gold gowns. Two were old and pudgy.
One was young, relatively -- maybe 40-50 years old.
![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image8.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}They all had blood flowing from their
foreheads. They all were salivating. And they all looked like they were
about to pass out. I was somewhat prepared for this but god, it was
still flabbergasting to see people that really believed they were
possessed by god. In fact it looked like they had rabbies. Drums beat
loudly. The younger man sometimes danced. But he mainly knelt in a
supporters arms, eyes half-closed and shaking his body. The ceremony
concluded.

There was another part where other old dudes dressed in more costumes
\-- this time, like the gowns of men in the Qing Dynasty, and did other
stuff. Let me tell you it\'s weird to see this shit in the 21st century.
And let\'s not forget that the Daoist Temple, like any other nonprofit,
has many hired camera-folk so that the donors don\'t forget that it
happened.

Truman and I then walked around and looked for vegan food on the island.
We had packed food with us, but Truman said he wanted to walk around
partially to take a chance to chat with people and small talk. Most
people's responses were that there was absolutely nothing that was vegan
on the island. Because of this religious event, which happens on such a
scale only once every 15 years, all restaurants were closed. But we
managed to grab some free fruit that some shop was giving out. Truman is
the master of small talking to the point of getting free food. But he
does it I believe out of curiousity. As we ate the fruit, a man asked me
where I'm from, and I told him Egypt. Truman couldn't keep a straight
face.\
\
Truman had met a man named Mr. Chen on another island at a similar
religious ceremony. We saw Mr. Chen on the street chatting to some
people he knew in Niaoyu. Since it was the Mid-Autumn Festival, many
people were visiting Penghu from mainland Taiwan. Two brothers and their
little cousin starting chatting to me. They're conversation starter was,
*ni3hao3shuai4e!*(you're so handsome!) I smiled and partook in the
conversation. One of the brothers was 23 like me. He had enrolled in the
air force for college and trained as an army cook. He said it paid well,
about 30-40kNTD a month, and that's just for a beginner position. But
it's hard work. I asked him how much he thinks an air force pilot makes
(which is what my manager's husband does). He said 200k+NTD a month,
which is a very large amount here. Anyways, we talked with these boys
and their little cousin, a cute 8-year-old girl growing up in Taipei.
She told us about the boys at school and how they're really stupid. She
said they tease her and then she hits them and then they chase her. It
sounded like an ideal childhood.\
\
\
**西嶼 (Shiyu)**. I only went past Baisha to the other islands once.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image9.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

When we gave up on taking the ferry to Niaoyu, Truman and I rode on his
scooter out to where he was staying in Xiyu. Xiyu was beautiful. There
are so many beaches there and natural sites. Notably is Renkan, an old
city that reminded me of Roman ruins. It's not that old. The houses are
made of brick and there are merchants selling random stuff there. We
bought cactus ice cream (or sorbet), which turned out to be vegan, from
a lady who used to host a show for a broadcasting channel that
spotlighted vegan restaurants all around Taiwan. She was very pretty,
had that broadcasting host face. After grabbing cactus ice cream we went
to the very tip of Xiyu which had *another* ice cream store. Truman knew
the *laoban* there, too, a nice chap who told us how his fruit ice
creams are made. Many flavors were also vegan. Truman met him before and
we talked so long that he also gave us the ice cream for free. He
insisted even though we had two scoops between the two of us. This
cactus ice cream was slightly more sour and had some cool rose
flavorings.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image10.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image11.jpeg){width="1.2638888888888888in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}

 The last thing I did in Xiyu was snorkling. I didn't quite get the hang
of the breathing. Maybe the angle of my breathing tube wasn't quite
right, so it kept filling with water.So I favored just wearing the
goggles and taking breaths like a normal swimmer (shout-out to mom and
dad for forcing me to go to swimming class Wednesday evenings at
Willesden Sports Center). The coral was colorful, magnificent, alien. It
was big and sharp and I had to be careful not to graze it doing
front-crawl. That day I took a bus back to Magong and was glad to have a
night of rest back at my hostel.\
\
\
**澎湖倫 The Penghu Ferry**. This boat is a thing of magnificence.\
\
I should say a word about the *Penghu Lun's* it's predecessor, the
Taihwa.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image12.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}The Taihwa was also often docked at the
Kaohsiung port and to Lily, and another friend Penny, it sparked wonder
and fascination. They dreamed one day it could take them to the far away
island that is Penghu. It turns out that whatever company owned it found
a buyer for the Taihwa. They sold it and somehow it got to be dissembled
in Bangalore. 

The inside of the Penghu Ferry is like a palace. There\'s flat-screen
TV, beds you can rent on to sleep, reclining chairs, and a small store
to buy food. In the bottom, there\'s space for bikes, cars, vans, and
food \-- whatever needs to be shipped from Kaohsiung to Penghu. It also
has the distinctive smell of beetelnut and oil. When you\'re on the
boat, footing is unsteady in the subtlest of ways \-- you can\'t quite
tell which way the waves are going, but when you get on land things feel
less sway-ey.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image13.jpeg){width="2.236111111111111in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image14.jpeg){width="1.2638888888888888in"
height="1.6805555555555556in"}On the way back, I took an evening boat. I
stood on top deck and other Kaohsiungers who went to Penghu for the long
weekend. My friends Don and Lily watched the boat from Magong recede
into the horizon. The sunset illuminated the ocean, and I saw the
disappearing outline of the Penghu islands.

at [October 04,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/penghu-islands.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/10/penghu-islands.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=639031872384502290&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal),
[review](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/review)

## Tuesday 26 September 2023 {#tuesday-26-september-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [assorted ideas 2023-09](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/09/assorted-ideas-2023-09.html)  {#assorted-ideas-2023-09 .list-paragraph}

I wrote in December 2020 on the topic of \"cyborgs at the Harkness
table\". The piece was meant to show how though our brains do a lot of
valuable thinking, we\'re almost always augmented by cognitive tools:
the internet, a calculator, even a pen and paper. These tools help us
record information, calculate, or access information that isn\'t stored
in our heads. I find it necessary to revisit this topic with the advent
of large language models. In the near future, brilliant innovations \--
technologically and artistically \-- will come from AI. The greatest
case of this is AI playing chess. AI defeated the world\'s best human
player, Gary Kasparov, in 1997. Since then, humans still play chess, but
the game has changed. We no longer have to do research like we used to.
We can consult chess algorithms, who innovate and develop strategies
that world-class players can use. A human chess player\'s job is to
learn and deploy these strategies that may never have been invented
without computers. How does this relate to cyborgs and the Harkness
table? Well, before, computers were there to augment the cognitive
brilliance of the human mind. The computer did the grunt work of
information storage or retrieval; humans did the hard thinking. Now, or
soon, artificial minds will be the greatest writers, musicians, literary
critics, and philosophers. The cyborgs will no longer be needed at the
Harkness table.

The podcast *Conversations with Tyler* has taught me how to ask better
questions. Tyler asks questions that strike at someone\'s individual
experience, yet still illuminate broader problems. I won\'t give
examples, just go listen to almost any episode you\'re interested in. He
also doesn\'t linger on questions, even if the answer is a little
wishy-washy. That\'s a great strategy. If someone hasn\'t answered a
question, they probably don\'t know and are too shy to say so. And also,
Tyler rarely lingers on topics that he wants to share *his* opinion on.
He focuses the interview on the other person.

Speaking of questions, there are two types of questions I find vile for
conversation. One is the *first date question*. These are questions that
the other person has likely heard hundreds or thousands of times before,
like \"where did you grow up? what do your parents do? do you have any
siblings?\" Gosh, they\'re hard to avoid, but it\'s so worth it. If
someone\'s giving you a canned answer, they probably don\'t find talking
to you very interesting. The second kind of vile question is the *uncle
question*. This is a question about the future that the person can\'t
possibly know the answer to. You go to a job interview, and after it a
friend asks, \"so you think you got the job?\" You meet someone who\'s
asking you about what you do (for work), and then they say, \"so,
what\'s next?\" Or another form of the *uncle question* is a comparative
\-- \"do you like living in CA or NYC better?\" \"Do you think X partner
is the one?\" They\'re loaded questions with a whole lot of factors. As
tempting as it is to want to know the future, no one does. Asking about
it doesn\'t help (why not ask a Magic 8 Ball?). If you want to ask one
of these vile questions, you should probably acknowledge how uncreative
it is by saying, \"I know you may have been asked this question a
hundred times before, but\... or, I know this question will probably
stress you out and you, at the moment, have no good answer to it,
but\...\" And then ask your question if you really feel the need.

I\'ve been requested by a couple people to receive email notifications
from these blogs. I\'m honored by this question, because it means that
you want to keep up-to-date on these musings. I have looked high and low
for other free, easy-to-update blogging solutions (that can also be
linked to a custom domain name) and Blogger doesn\'t seem like a bad
option for now. I\'m also considering Notion, but that\'s a whole thing.
However, one alternative is to use an RSS reader, like this one
[here](https://rss.app/feed/8dGOoL3JDRyDadUa), and put in the
information of this blog. Since RSS isn\'t a common tool these days,
that\'s probably more trouble than it\'s worth. But I thought I\'d
mention it. I also know there are some friends (shout-out my parents,
Tynan, Shaurya, and Setu!), who check this website every now and then
and catch up on old posts. I\'m grateful for the readership.

I went to test for a scooter license today in Kaohsiung. Turns out you
need to schedule these things in advance, so I was only able to take a
2-hour traffic safety course. I haven\'t often had to sit in a chair and
passively listen since I graduated from college. So this was a welcome
experience. Part of it was done by a real instructor who went through
the 8-section course that constitutes the actual test. Then there was a
video about driving safely. It was actually a video about driving
dangerously. There were doctors and parents and whatnot talking about
scooter deaths, vegetablization, the impact on families, things like
that. I found it worthwhile and the videos of traffic accidents rather
gripping. I think I paid more attention than I would\'ve for an
analogous course in the US/UK. I considered it great Chinese practice
\-- they spoke in crisp Mandarin, had Chinese subtitles, and was
relevant content for my near-future. But after watching the video, I
felt like not driving a scooter at all. With the high speeds and
unprotected body, it seems like the most dangerous thing I can do in my
day-to-day life. The most life-threatening thing in my life right now is
riding a bicycle (I\'m loathe to give that up). So although I may take
this famous exam (appointment on October 17th!), you won\'t find me
driving too soon.

A final point. Phone numbers. They\'re outdated, insecure, and stupid.
In Taiwan especially, everyone uses LINE (which is a commercialized
clunky software, but anyways). If I was president of the world for a
day, I would have everyone register a public contact number. It\'d be
like a social security number, but actually something you could give out
if you need to be contacted or identified. Banks, hotels, organizations
could contact you for anything through it. It\'d be encrypted and linked
to your official national ID so no one could ever hack into it. And it
could notify you through a variety of applications. Email is close to
this, but don\'t so many people have something like \"pudgywudgy123\" as
they\'re account name? And phone numbers \-- no, no, no. Foolish. People
change phone numbers all the time. Same with zip codes and addresses.
Some things are so simple yet so hard to get organized in society.

What\'s the right structure for a blog post? What are the key
ingredients? Does a blog post need to have a point? For me a) there is
no right structure b) there are no key ingredients c) no. 

I\'ve been writing some longer pieces recently, and I find it extremely
difficult. It\'s one thing to have an idea and turn it into a blogpost.
The standards here are very low. To me, the important part of blogging
is that I write something in the first place. Basically whatever I write
is better than nothing. For essays, however, it\'s so crazily difficult
to get stuck in an perfectionist trap. You write a bit, then think about
how it could be phrased better, then write it again. Then you think
about how the reader will read it, so you write it once more. Then you
look at a whole finished page and decide that from the outset, the idea
of the piece is bland and not even worth writing this way. It\'s going
to take another draft. Then do that for 5-10 pages and you have one
essay, or one chapter of a book. I can understand writers getting
writer\'s block. I can understand people taking years to write a book
that they\'re proud of. And then it might be consumed by a reader within
a week. At the same time, writing something great is one of the greatest
gifts you can leave the world (along with recording great music). A
friend I had in college was a big reader of political philosophy. He
said when he looked at his shelf, with those works by Kant and Foucault
and Bentham lined up, he could imagine their voices calling out to him,
even hundreds of years after their passing. Soon with large language
models, we will be able to pose original questions to AI imitating
writers who are long dead. Is it immortality that I crave when writing?
Or, how shy I am of sharing my pieces, is it just the act of
representing myself in text that feels valuable?

at [September 26,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/09/assorted-ideas-2023-09.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/09/assorted-ideas-2023-09.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4127804036468406697&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4127804036468406697&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4127804036468406697&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4127804036468406697&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4127804036468406697&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 1 August 2023 {#tuesday-1-august-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [english is superfluous](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/08/english-is-superfluous.html)  {#english-is-superfluous .list-paragraph}

 I\'ve realized that English has more curtesies than I had previously
thought. Let me give some examples:

English: \"Hey Jonathan! Any chance you might be free on Thursday
evening for dinner? I will be in the area so thought I might ask :). No
worries if you\'ve got something else going on, or will be too tired
from work. We can always meet another time! Hope all is well.\"

Meaning: \"thursday dinner yes or no?\"

English: \"Hi everyone! Hope you\'re having a great start to your
Monday. I just realized I had something come up in the afternoon, so it
will be hard for me to make the meeting we have. Let me know if there\'s
any way I can help though! I\'ll make sure to read the notes after. See
you all soon!\"

Meaning: \"i can\'t make the meeting today\"

English: \"Hey Johnny! So sorry to bother you, but I\'ve just got a word
from Sharon that we need to add some extra slides to the Powerpoint for
the client. I\'ve got a full plate today and tomorrow, and since the
presentation is Wednesday, do you think you could manage to do that for
me? It would be a huge help. Thanks so much.\"

Meaning: \"make slides by wed.\"

Now, now, you might be saying that all this superfluous add-on
information isn\'t strictly necessary. Sure, not for super close friends
or people you work with very closely. But in most situations I think
that amount of buffer isn\'t unreasonable. Otherwise, you risk being
considered rude, terse, or informal. I recently watched a woman on a
plane spend several hours writing messages like the English above, and
not doing actual object-level work at all. That\'s how society is I
guess.

at [August 01,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/08/english-is-superfluous.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/08/english-is-superfluous.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7783652605247768817&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7783652605247768817&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7783652605247768817&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7783652605247768817&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7783652605247768817&target=pinterest)

### [2023-08 Semiannual Update](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/08/2023-08-semiannual-update.html)  {#semiannual-update-1 .list-paragraph}

Greetings again,

Thanks for sticking around for the third round of semi-annual updates to
family and friends.

In short, I\'m still living in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, and planning to be for
another year (or so). But you can read more below :).

As always, I welcome updates \-- long or short \-- back in return! I\'m
ever-curious to hear what\'s new and old and everything in between.

Until next time,

Rohan 

**Changes and Continuities**

One big change this year is my good friend Leon, who moved with me from
Berkeley, is going back to California. He couldn\'t stay in Taiwan
longer than a year because of complications with the military service
here. But I\'m happy to have some friends in the city from before, so
starting off again won\'t be as challenging as last year. I\'ve also
moved apartments, so I have Taiwanese flatmates and a new neighborhood
to hang about.

Kaohsiung is a great place and I\'m happy to be here for another year. I
enjoy the nature in southern Taiwan, the warm weather and the warm
people you find there. Taiwan is so small yet has so much to see \-- the
beautiful east coast, the outlying islands, and the mountains. So to me
there\'s more than enough to see in my next year here.

I\'ll be teaching at the same *buxiban*, an afterschool English center
for kids. Many of my kids will be the same as last year, just going on
to more advanced material. But I\'m also starting an \"ABC class\"
(complete beginners, maybe age 7)! Of course, with my training right
from the start, they\'ll be reading the New Yorker within a few months!

I enjoy my job more and more as I do it. With more experience, I feel
more able to relax into the work. There\'s lots of creative activities
that kids enjoy, but I\'ve learned that kids like a degree of ritual. We
play the same games and dance to the same songs (typically Blackpink)
again and again. It\'s wonderful to get to know my students and see them
improve, learn their personalities and strengths and weaknesses. When we
watch movies like Lion King or Spiderman I feel like I\'m going through
these experiences with them with fresh eyes. All in all, my students are
lucky to grow up in a place like Taiwan, and I\'m grateful to be part of
their lives as they grow up.

I\'ve gotten to a good place in my Chinese level, one that I\'m happy
with for the time being. I can have long conversations in Mandarin; I
can watch TV and listen to some podcasts; I can negotiate rent with my
new landlord in Chinese. I also see my limits \-- reading news articles,
listening to super fast conversations among native speakers are beyond
my abilities. But I don\'t mind that so much, because after all I do
speak English. When I first came to Taiwan it felt like my every bit of
free time could and should be spent learning Chinese, because the
potential future benefits felt boundless. Nowadays I feel less confident
that I\'ll use Chinese directly for work in the future (especially given
how intense work culture is in Asia). For now I\'m rather happy chatting
to the guy who sells me bananas or people in my ping pong class.
Speaking Chinese is a great tool in my toolkit, and it\'s given me a new
perspective on what non-native English speakers experience.

**Travels**

I\'ve been lucky to travel a few places since the new year. At the end
of January, I went to Thailand and India with my parents. We stayed in
Bangkok for three days and saw more Buddhist temples than I could count.
Bangkok was a cool city \-- they have an awesome boat system on the
river that you can take to many places. In India we went to Chennai
where I saw my grandmother. She\'s over ninety and still kickin\'. It
had a been about three years since I had seen her so I was happy to do
that. India and Taiwan are vastly different places \-- me and my parents
alike were unused to the level of chaos that one experiences getting
around.

My friend Andrew visited Taiwan after that and did a grand tour of the
island. Andrew found places I had never heard of, like the [Fuyuan
Butterfly
Valley](https://www.rtaiwanr.com/east-rift-valley/fuyuan-butterfly-valley),
and some I had, like the Taroko Gorge National Park. We made great use
of Taiwan\'s epic train system, affordable hostels, and epic vegetarian
restaurants. Also in Taiwan, I recently went to Jiufen, a city near
Taipei that is the inspiration for the setting of *Spirited Away*. And
on my birthday I went to Green Island, a former penal colony that is
indeed very green.

Over the Dragon Boat Festival I went to Shanghai to see my friends Hanji
and Shuge from Berkeley. I was lucky they were both there to take me
around and let me meet their friends. Shanghai is a large, large city.
Its population is 23 million, more than twice that of New York City, and
it has a sprawling underground with 408 stations and many more planned
in the next decade. Shanghai was also remarkable in terms of green
transportation \-- 99% of mopeds I saw were electric, and about half of
cars were, too. It makes quiet, exhaust-free transport. China also has
the world\'s largest high-speed-rail network which I used to go to
Hangzhou. It\'s fast and much cheaper than the one in Taiwan. Life is
good in China in these ways. Though I was unaccustomed to the number of
security cameras, prevalence of online payment (frustrating because I
couldn\'t use it as a short-stay foreigner!), and Chinese Mandarin
accents. Though geographically and linguistically close to Taiwan, China
felt very foreign to me.

**Fun things**

After playing with my friend Etienne at his house for a few weeks, we
decided to go in on group ping pong lessons near where I live in
Kaohsiung. I played recreationally as a kid with my old neighbor John.
I\'d consider myself pretty good, even if I never had formal training.
Taking lessons, though, has made me realize there\'s a whole lot more to
ping pong. We started correcting my basic form, which I realized had a
whole lot of problems, and as I\'ve improved the coaches teach me more
advanced techniques. There\'s something special about whacking a ping
pong ball and sending it to the exact place that you wish it to go, and
spin the way you want to. At the highest levels, every rally feels like
a fast-paced chess match, each hit being a thought-out move on the
board. I\'ve written a couple blog posts on this topic!

I\'ve also started learning guitar. The initial motivation was to learn
an instrument that\'s more harmony/rhythm based, a weak spot in my music
skills. Guitar is fascinating \-- to me, the fretboard and fingerings
seems very geometric and logical, the way everything is laid out. It\'s
a good exercise for muscle memory to learn the chords properly. And also
to sing a melody, finger the chords and strum has proved to be
challenging! But also means I have lots of room for improvement.

With my friends Etienne, Leon, and another friend Noé, I recorded a jazz
album! It was quite the musical experience. We recorded 13 jazz
standards that we had been practicing for a few months. Each took one to
four takes, which is why the process was so exhausting \-- our own
standards for perfection were self-defeating. Knowing that every
note/sound would be recorded made playing much harder. And having the
pressure of recording all the songs we wanted to do in one day was
difficult too. Anyways, the music is still in the mastering process.
When it\'s ready, I think we\'ll put it on Bandcamp (and it probably
deserves another blog post). I hope to record again!

at [August 01,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/08/2023-08-semiannual-update.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/08/2023-08-semiannual-update.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4969020429625260590&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4969020429625260590&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4969020429625260590&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4969020429625260590&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4969020429625260590&target=pinterest)

## Monday 31 July 2023 {#monday-31-july-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [me sitting at a desk](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/me-sitting-at-desk.html)  {#me-sitting-at-a-desk .list-paragraph}

 Normally I really hate sitting down for long periods of time. Sitting
is important for lots of things like preparing for tests, having coffee
with people, sending emails, journalling, etc. I enjoy those things and
can tolerate sitting for a little bit like that. But when I think about
the monumentous task of doing something for many hours at end, day after
day at a desk it\'s rather daunting. Sitting at end also has bad health
effects on metabolism and such. It\'s said (by me) that sitting might
even be the new smoking.

The exception to my dislike of sitting is when I\'m reading a book I
really like. I\'ve recently been reading the Mistborn trilogy; a fantasy
series about a magical feudal kingdom. There\'s something about the
escapism of fantasy that lets me forget everything else going and become
obsessed with learning about the plot of the story. So maybe I can sit
after all, I just need something enrapturing enough to do.

at [July 31,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/me-sitting-at-desk.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/me-sitting-at-desk.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4954912402193662177&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4954912402193662177&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4954912402193662177&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4954912402193662177&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4954912402193662177&target=pinterest)

### [the biannual update](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/the-biannual-update.html)  {#the-biannual-update .list-paragraph}

 it\'s coming

at [July 31,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/the-biannual-update.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/the-biannual-update.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3498062871670117108&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3498062871670117108&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3498062871670117108&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3498062871670117108&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3498062871670117108&target=pinterest)

## Saturday 1 July 2023 {#saturday-1-july-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Wealth-based affirmative action?](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/wealth-based-affirmative-action.html)  {#wealth-based-affirmative-action .list-paragraph}

I can understand why many lefties are in a huff about affirmative
action. Affirmative action policies are meant to be anti-racist, and
maybe reverse residual effects of racist American policies of the past
and general prejudice of society at large. Plus, universities like
having multicolored recruitment posters. 

However even with affirmative action, elite universities have a horrid
track record of admitting marginalized students. Here\'s data from my
old economics professor Danny Yagan and others about how elite
universities by-and-large take in students with very high-income
families and spit them out into the high-income labor market. Stories of
a low-class student of color\'s life being changed through education are
statistically, few and far between. 

Family wealth and income, to me, is what really matters in terms of
education and inequality. Race is tied to it, but not the only thing
that divides the have and the have-nots. So although Clarence Thomas and
his posy in the Supreme Court have struck down race-based affirmative
action, aren\'t there other still-legal policies that can amend American
inequality? I\'m curious if so, and if not, why not.

at [July 01,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/wealth-based-affirmative-action.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/07/wealth-based-affirmative-action.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8938903260660891905&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8938903260660891905&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8938903260660891905&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8938903260660891905&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8938903260660891905&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 27 June 2023 {#tuesday-27-june-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [纽约是不是世界最发达的城市？](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/blog-post.html)  {#纽约是不是世界最发达的城市 .list-paragraph}

I\'m chatting with a couple Chinese folks at the hostel I\'m staying at
in Shanghai. Many people I speak to in China have a surprising reverence
for America. I ask one of my roommates, \"in America we have the
American dream. Do you have the Chinese dream here in China?\" He says
that actually, I still want to go to America, that\'s where we all want
to go. In Shanghai, Suzhou, and other prosperous cities in China, I\'m
told more and more young people are trying to move abroad to study.
\"But,\" my hostel-mate caveats, \"is it true that you have many guns in
America?\"

I\'m talking with a girl from Shenzhen and the hostel receptionist one
evening. The girl from Shenzhen asks, \"is it true New York is the
world\'s most developed city?\" I\'m not a New Yorker but I\'m more than
happy to shit on it. I tell them the New York subway is dirty, the
trains aren\'t on time, many people live without a home, and a million
people died in America from COVID. The receptionist nods solemnly, and
says, \"maybe it has to do with politics.\" The Shenzhener says, \"maybe
we all see the darkness in the places we are from.\"

It\'s also true that we see light in places we are not from \-- oh, how
public transport advocates envy China\'s brilliant, world-class
high-speed rail network. And in China, the Shenzhener tells me, they
also love Taylor Swift.

at [June 27, 2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/blog-post.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/blog-post.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=377281732258542792&target=pinterest)

### [Jamba Juice with Dean](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/jamba-juice-with-dean.html)  {#jamba-juice-with-dean .list-paragraph}

It\'s past midnight in Shanghai, China and I\'m calling my friend Dean
in San Francisco. He walks into a Jamba Juice and says \"hey, how are
you!\" Not to a friend but to a complete stranger who is behind the cash
register. Dean is vegan like me and likes that Jamba Juice has added
Impossible Burger to their menu. He says so to the cashier, who I
imagine is a hippie-ish dude with long curly hair and tattoos on his
arms but not his legs, even though it has no relevance to his order.
Dean proceeds to order something with granola in it, but, like me, he
wants to know if the granola is made with honey. The cashier says it\'s
a good question and he\'ll have to get back to Dean about that even
though if it really is such a good question, why hasn\'t he himself
before today? The cashier goes to the back to check. Meanwhile a lady
comes up to Dean and asks, \"are you in line or have you paid?\" Dean
stumbles a little because the truthful answer is that he\'s waiting on
the cashier to look up whether the granola has traces of honey which is
made from bees which suffer kind of at the merciless hands of humans but
actually mostly from neglect during transfer of these insects in the
honey-production process and so that means Dean is not in line but he
also hasn\'t paid so Dean doesn\'t finish his sentence. \"Nope, yeah, no
honey. You\'re all good,\" says the cashier when he\'s back. \"Great,
I\'ll have that then. That\'s Dean. D-E-A-N.\"

at [June 27,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/jamba-juice-with-dean.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/jamba-juice-with-dean.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6000119964213249945&target=pinterest)

## Monday 19 June 2023 {#monday-19-june-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Ping Pong Competition 1](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/ping-pong-competition-1.html)  {#ping-pong-competition-1 .list-paragraph}

Yesterday I went to my first ever ping pong competition!

The last time I went to a competition like that, a series of one-on-one
matches, was when I was in elementary school playing chess. My gracious
father (happy Father\'s Day!) accompanied me on a few Saturdays to these
rather quiet, solemn affairs. Kids of various ages would whip each
other\'s asses on viscious terrain while the parents would sit in the
break room and drink coffee. My opponents in chess where always more
serious than I was, and normally better. They would write down every
move in a booklet so they could play back the game later. I would play
from the heart.

I walked in the room with my devoted team of supporters \-- Etienne,
Leon, Penny, and Gary \-- to a room of kids. Ranging from six to ten
years old, most smaller the ones I teach at cram school. I\'d call them
all *meimei* (little sister) or *didi* (little brother) because, well,
they were all that small. I was welcomed to the registration table,
however, and was grateful to see a couple people above the age of
fifteen (by far the minority).

In the next two and a half hours I proceeded to get my ass whooped. My
first loss was against a small boy (age 7-ish) in yellow \-- I\'ll call
him Tomahawk, named after his viscous side-spin serve. Every ball he
served whipped to the left, and I felt woefully unprepared. After one
game (best of five), we broke and the boy got water from his parents. I
went to my friend and ping pong partner Etienne. He said, \"Rohan, I\'ve
played against a guy like this before. You can\'t take his bait, you
have to counter-act his serve. You need to go right to go left.\" With a
room full of children, their parents, and flying balls I couldn\'t
exactly master the Tomahawk serve response, and soon enough lost three
consecutive games.

Second up was another kid, slighter bigger in blue. I called him Puma
because that was the brand of his shirt but he sure acted like one, too.
Puma played hard and fast, taking every forehand as the opportunity to
strike. I felt I had a fighting chance against Puma because unlike
Tomahawk, his serve was normal. But Puma beat me fair and square. Even
more frightening, though, was his stance and poker face. Win or lose,
Puma showed no emotions. After winning the first game his dad urgently
hit him on the forehead and seemed to imply how Puma should be doing
better than this. Etienne commented, \"it\'s sad, man, never feeling
like you\'re doing enough. That kids going to end up with some kind of
inferiority complex.\" I nodded, feeling like playing little kids is a
little bit of a lose-lose situation, but forged one (and proceeded to
get whooped two more games). To his credit, Puma shook my hand after the
game and walked away with little joy on his face.

My final match was with the oldest opponent I had played that day (he
looked to be fourteen or slightly older). *Jiayou*, I shouted (\"good
luck!\"), and he smiled back. I won one game this time and danced in a
circle! My friends cheered, knowing that was my goal for my first
tournament. The Teenager played well, but not perfectly, which made it a
good match. He won 3-1 and thereby qualified for the final elimination
tournament (I didn\'t).

I left after that, happy to leave the pressure-cooker environment. I
reflected that one-on-one competition is no easy thing. The other sports
like that \-- ping pong/tennis, chess/go, martial arts \-- all take a
form of seriousness at the professional level. You are left on your own
to savor victories and accept defeat. There\'s no element of chance.
Just you and your opponent.

On the floor upstairs, my friends I watched the advanced tournament
going on simultaneously. Mostly still young kids, maybe averaging a
couple years older. One boy holds back tears as he plays. He raises his
left hand to signal to his opponent that he\'s not yet ready to start,
sniffles, and presses on. On a different table, a girl is locked in an
epic duel with a boy that obnoxiously shouts *\"DUI!\"* every time he
scores a point. She develops her own call, *\"Wei!\"*. But eventually
she suffers a defeat, three to one, like my match against the Teenager.
She\'s only eight-years-old, I learn from her father; dexterity ten
times greater than my students at school. *\"Ni hen lihai,\"* I say
(you\'re really good). She smiles at me. After a day of losing I reflect
that the hardest part about sports is learning how to lose even when you
give it your all.

at [June 19,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/ping-pong-competition-1.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/ping-pong-competition-1.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7280495538859821817&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7280495538859821817&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7280495538859821817&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7280495538859821817&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7280495538859821817&target=pinterest)

### [Aoyan\'s Pipa](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/aoyans-pipa.html)  {#aoyans-pipa .list-paragraph}

I met a man named Aoyan today playing the *pipa*, a Chinese instrument.
It\'s like a guitar, but has a bustier bottom, and has a fabulous sound
\-- the sound of rain drops and a mountain-side view. It reminds me of
those old Chinese landscape paintings, the ones where there are people
walking along a bridge carrying water for the village, and people
dressed up riding horses and the mountains in the background. All from
four strings and a block of wood.

Aoyan tells me the *pipa\'s* ancestor is the *lute*. The design was
passed Eastward and, according to Aoyan, is the origin of similar
instruments like the Middle Eastern *oud* and the Indian *sitar*.

Aoyan goes through a variety of techniques on the *pipa*. The sound of
raindrops, that\'s a technique. And so is the heavy vibrato that\'s as
vibrant as an electric guitar. One can even cross strings on the *pipa*,
and when strum together it gives a terrific crash. 

Some *pipa* from the Qing and Ming dynasties have been preserved, Aoyan
tells me. He saw some masters playing them at an academy in Taipei. But
you can also buy them on *Taobao* for a few hundreds US dollars. *You
seem like you\'re interested in learning instruments*, Aoyan says to me.
It\'s true that I am. Having just started learning guitar, I\'m
realizing the vastness of what you can do with four metal strings.

at [June 19, 2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/aoyans-pipa.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/06/aoyans-pipa.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7235964468274122419&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7235964468274122419&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7235964468274122419&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7235964468274122419&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7235964468274122419&target=pinterest)

## Friday 26 May 2023 {#friday-26-may-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [不對！](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/using-force.html)  {#不對 .list-paragraph}

I flick my wrist and strike the ball with a satisfying *tut*. *Score, *I
think, but *jìaolìan,* my coach, doesn\'t agree. *Búdùi* he says. Wrong.
He shows me the stroke one more time.

Just about everything in ping pong can be put into the *duì* (correct)
or búdùi (incorrect) classification. My coach is a math teacher at a
*bǔxíbān*, a cram school, which maybe means he\'s especially familiar
with what\'s wrong and right. My footwork is *búdùi* (if you\'re moving
right, you should move the left foot first). My posture is *búdùi*, I\'m
standing too upright. My hand grips the racket completely *búdùi*-ly.
\"The fundamentals of ping pong are very important,\" my coach
unhelpfully adds, and he sends another ball my way.

There are moments, precious few, when I hit the ball in a non-objectible
manner. \"OK,\" he says. *OK* is a special loan-word in Taiwanese
Mandarin \-- in American English it might translate as, \"well done!\"
or \"fantastic!!\" or \"you\'re a star student!!!\" In Chinese, they
don\'t waste the breath.

My coach hits the ball back with startling precision. I put all the
force I can muster on some of the \"OK\" balls but my coach sweeps his
hand back exactly right so I can do it all again. 

In my fourth group lesson I notice my coach playing with his left hand.

\"Coach, you\'re not a leftie, are you??\" 

\"I can do both,\" he says nonchalantly. He explains later, \"I\'m
right-handed, but I realized my form on my right-hand was often *búdùi*,
so I trained with my coach on the left,\" like what he did was the most
sensical thing in the world. \"The fundamentals of ping pong are very
important.\"

at [May 26, 2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/using-force.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/using-force.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8435154555022737544&target=pinterest)

### [Hank and Goliath](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/hank-and-goliath.html)  {#hank-and-goliath .list-paragraph}

The battle to control Hank started long before I was his teacher. My
predessor Bryan found him impossible. Bryan had him through the COVID
online teaching period and eventually found a way to have him sent down
a few English \"levels\", which is how he ended up in my class. Hank was
dumped into my class.

Hank\'s offenses are sometimes minor. But over time they accumulate, and
taking away \"stars\", a little school reward system, doesn\'t do quite
enough. So inspired by my boss I thought that if students do something
pretty bad twice, they just stay after class and write lines.

I held him after class the first time a couple months into teaching. \"I
will not throw balls at my classmates.\" He writes it ten times and we
read it together, ten times. \"Got it, Hank?\" He goes on his way home.
Then, just a couple weeks later, he suddenly was yelling swear words at
someone for losing at Foosball. I held him back again: \"I will not
shout in class.\" Twenty times. 

Once Hank had an intense argument with a boy named Tom over the
ownership of a pen cap. They used all their English possible to argue
and I sent them downstairs to my manager. \"It was the stupidest
argument,\" she told me later. \"Hank doesn\'t even have that type of
pen.\"

Hank finds behavior normal that other kids would never consider. I\'ll
look away for five seconds and Hank will have tackled Eason and they\'ll
be wrestling on the ground. Hank stays after class.

\"Why were you wrestling Eason?\"

\"Eason and I are friends, Teacher! I thought it was fun play.\"

\"I will not wrestle my friends.\" Thirty times.

I\'m not an ardent disciplinarian. Honestly, I was never made to write
lines in school. Part of me detests this inane punishment that seems
like it\'s out of Harry Potter\'s fifth year at Hogwarts. But I also
like that I have some distance from the punishment. Hank can break the
rules and be penalized for it, but that doesn\'t mean he\'s a bad kid.
He\'s like many other kids, just a touch on the hyper-active side. No,
I\'ve never been angry at him, even when he gets two strikes in the
first five minutes of class \-- just maybe exasperated. Some times I\'ve
held him back have actually been rather nice bonding moments. \"So, you
know why you\'re here\...\" Other times he\'s left the room crying, and
I wonder if I\'ve gotten carried away in my pursuit of justice. But over
time, our synergy has improved\... Such that he mostly stays within the
bounds of reason, even if he\'s slamming his whole body again them.

Today I met Hank\'s father. He\'s a well-built man; big like Hank; his
right hand is missing half his pinky. He lives in Chengdu, Sichuan,
China and comes back to Kaohsiung every three months or so. This time he
stopped by his son\'s *buxiban*, worried about his grades are in
decline.

I shake Hank\'s dad\'s hand, honored to meet the man himself. In Chinese
I say, Hank does fine on tests. He\'s sometimes loud, and he sometimes
gets in fights. And he talks kind of funny. But you know sir, Hank\'s an
alright kid.

## Wednesday 24 May 2023

### [Turning forty](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/turning-forty.html)  {#turning-forty .list-paragraph}

 Yesterday I had the privilege of hearing what was trobling
forty-ish-year-old people.

My co-worker went to the hospital recently for heart problems. She
feinted in the middle of the night some years ago. Since then she\'s
been watching her stress levels.

My other co-worker has heart problems. Something about inconsistent
beating. One doctor said he had a stroke. Another doctor said it\'s
fine. Eventually they put some radioactive substance in his blood to
track the flow of it, or something, and after this test they said it was
all fine for real.

One was a man I play badminton with in Weiwuying Park. He\'s an
excellent player and gracious, too. He\'s ever-welcoming, easy to chat
to, and invites any and all to join the game. Anyways, I was asking him
what he gets up to at home once he\'s done with badminton. He said he
eats dinner with his family, then goes for a walk. The doctor says it\'s
not good to sit around right after a big dinner. And moreover, he
recently started taking small insulin tablets. One a day, which is not
much, but to him, it\'s permanent. Diabetes is no small thing, and once
you start on those pills, he said, you can\'t go back. 

My other co-worker (last one) always has back pain issues. Sometimes
I\'ve been asked to sub for her for it. 

These instances come up now and again. When I was younger, hearing these
stories would bore me because, well, I\'m far away from that point in
life. But these days, I teach across the hall from these people, or play
badminton on the other side of the court from them. And moreover, I\'ll
turn forty some day. 

Health is one of those things that worries everyone, no matter your age.
I think at forty, maybe work and marriage and groceries have more or
less been worked out. But not the changes to your body. Not especially
natural deterioration, which happens over the course of several decades.

My instinct is to say, I\'ll stay healthy, watch my sugar levels,
regularly exercise, etc. But that truthfully only staves off reality.
I\'ll have health issues at some point in my life (in fact, I already
have had injuries from biking without handlebars and things like that).
When I turn forty, I hope I\'ll be able to accept that these things are
basically inevitable\*.

\* unless there\'s [anti-aging remedies](https://www.sens.org/about-us/)
or [uploaded
consciousness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_uploading) by then,
which is possible but I\'m not holding my breath.

at [May 24,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/turning-forty.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/turning-forty.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6362868824878715587&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6362868824878715587&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6362868824878715587&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6362868824878715587&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6362868824878715587&target=pinterest)

## Monday 22 May 2023 {#monday-22-may-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Sitting at Sunny Day Coffee Roasters](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters.html)  {#sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters .list-paragraph}

and free writing.

Today I went to the tax office to try to get a tax rebate. I was looking
forward to getting that money back. But apparently you have to have been
working for six months within a given calendar year to be eligible for
the rebate. So she told me, \"come back next year.\" I laughed. The good
news is that I don\'t have to worry about taxes, the bad news is I
don\'t get any money from it.

In July my college friend, roommate, and co-worker Leon is moving back
to the US. He is a dual-US/Taiwanese citizen and for some reason,
doesn\'t want to serve in the Taiwanese military. He says that he
doesn\'t want to perish in cross-strait warfare. I told him Xi Jinping
says the People\'s Liberation Army won\'t be ready until 2027, but
nonetheless, here we are. Honestly speaking, though, I wouldn\'t want to
necessarily do something (the military) for four months either. Jobs
aren\'t as highly-paid in Taiwan as they are in the US, not by a
long-shot. Most people who have the option of both choose to live in the
US and make an American salary.

Nonetheless, my roommate leaving felt like a big change. I\'m scared of
living alone and being lonely, so I found a shared apartment. Four
bedrooms, myself and three strangers. I loosely know the landlord, so I
think they won\'t be crazy. In Taiwan, I think people are much more
likely to be quiet, get on with their business, and never interact with
flatmate than be overly combative. I\'m nervous about moving in with
strangers, as I\'ve never done it before, and I\'m also nervous about
conducting all household business in Chinese. But on the other hand,
it\'s a natural step up in my immersion setting. I\'m confident in my
Mandarin right now, but for the most part I choose when to deploy it and
when not to. Now I\'ll have to have Chinese on my brain whenever I\'m
home, managing things in the house, etc. I think it\'ll be a growth
experience. And not so awful, since many of my friendships in Taiwan are
at least half in English.

My friend Ella told me a bit of advice she heard: \"life is long enough
to do everything you want to do.\" Is this true? I suppose it depends
how many things you want to do. I think maybe most people get to what
they want in life not because of a lack of time. More because of
priorities. Their twenties were spent doing a job they had to do, or
just chose but didn\'t like; then in their thirties they got sucked into
a career or a marriage and these responsibilities just accelerate. A
recurring bit of wisdom I\'ve heard is to go on adventures while you
can. My colleagues, who are around forty, and my old math teacher (about
60), both essentially said, you\'re hardly ever too young to start over.
Anyways, this is all to say that I\'m still in Taiwan because I feel
like I\'m learning here. I\'m learning how to live in a new place, how
to manage relationships as an adult, how to manage money, how to speak
another language, how to make choices. Taiwan makes this easier in some
ways, with most things being absurdly affordable and convenient. Though
living in a new place, speaking in a second language, also makes things
novel and rewarding and challenging in their own way. It\'s such that
when/if I return to the US, hopefully everything will be easy-mode\...
making friends, doing adult things. Easy to the point of monotony? I
can\'t be sure.

Since coming to Taiwan, my goals have somewhat pivoted. Regarding
language, I came here intent on going from my foundation in Chinese to a
strong speaking level. Now, I feel like I\'ve more or less achieved that
\-- confident enough to do most every daily task in Chinese, and have
rich conversations (with somewhat simplified language). I don\'t say
I\'m fluent at Chinese because there\'s many things I can\'t do (as with
anything). But then, I can say I\'m proficient \-- more proficient than
many Americans get with a second language. I also had the less
well-defined goal of enjoying life and exploring new places. I\'ve been
doing so to a large extent. Enjoying life out of college has been
different than I expected. Though I have ample free time at first I
didn\'t have tons to do each day, and so I felt at a loss. Now I feel
like my life is more full, even overly-busy at times, but still
enjoyable. Living in a place I think necessitates sacrificing freedom
for consistency\... that is, consistently attending flute classes on
Mondays, for example, means that I can\'t go on long weekend trips out
of town. But then, I\'m discovering that I enjoy a fulfilling routine
more than the barrage of decisions necessitated by travelling. The
exploration part of life, I think, is not so much my goal as learning
what really fulfills me in a week \-- playing music, reading,
interacting with my students, learning things, journalling and
reflecting. I\'ve realized that more hobbies than I thought transfer to
wherever I live, Taiwan or otherwise. If I ever move to a new place
again, I\'d like to say I\'ll be even more prepared, and more commited
to the routines that ground my life. 

Recently, I\'ve also been learning how to accept things out of my
control. For instance, I think there\'s a chance that super-smart
artificial intelligence will take over the world in a couple decades.
But what can I do about that? Right now, rather little. The same goes
with traffic jams, train delays, scheduling conflicts, and whether my
clothes will crease from being left in the laundry too long. Rationally
speaking, once you commit to a decision, there\'s no point worrying
about counter-factuals until you come to the next decision-point. Easier
said than done. Post-college life goes at a slower pace. There\'s more
value to being content in the present, leveling up as you can in
day-to-day life rather than considering things existentially. That\'s
what my blog\'s for after all.

at [May 22,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/sitting-at-sunny-day-coffee-roasters.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=947142040897303566&target=pinterest)

### [Toilet cloggage in on the Taiwan Railway](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/toilet-cloggage-in-on-taiwan-railway.html)  {#toilet-cloggage-in-on-the-taiwan-railway .list-paragraph}

今天我從苗栗三義跟朋友回高雄。我們在台中轉車，走到月台時，發現人超級多！整個月台都是人，可能有一萬人以上，真的『人山人海』。

我們訂了火車票，但我看很多人應該沒買到，很多人打算站著搭車。我有一點看不起沒有票的人，覺得我們應該優先上車，也怕我們可能沒有辦法上車。維平不怕，他就說『大家冷靜！我們訂了票，一定沒有什麼問題會發生的』不過突然火車鳴笛了，感覺我們真的上不了車子。我們很快走到第五車廂，一直推人所以可以上車。本來想可以從第五廂走到第四（我們的位子在那邊）。一開始走的時候，覺得人們蠻願意幫助我們，盡量移動一下讓我們過去，走越久越發現，車上真的塞住了，就像堵塞的馬桶。

我們站著思考下一步。我朋友Johnny好像有一點幽閉恐懼症，所以他說他要在彰化下車，再搭下一班，但是我反對，說我要堅持到底，因為怕如果下車了，下一班一定沒有辦法坐上。後來，在彰化很多人下車了，所以我們找辦法過去我們的車廂，慢慢找我們的位子，平靜地坐著，假裝沒看到後面的阻塞。

因為這個經驗，我想，你怎麼判斷一個國家的設備（比如，台鐵）？應該是透過他們最尖峰，最有壓力的時刻才能了解設計得多好。

at [May 22,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/toilet-cloggage-in-on-taiwan-railway.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/toilet-cloggage-in-on-taiwan-railway.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5724019452297221562&target=pinterest)

## Thursday 18 May 2023 {#thursday-18-may-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Welcome home, sir](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/welcome-home-sir.html)  {#welcome-home-sir .list-paragraph}

Whenever I went to the US growing up, the border control officer would
take my passport, look at my pre-pubescent face, and solemnly say,
\"welcome home, sir.\" I\'d struggle to hold back a smirk.

Home? The US was the place I was born, but the UK was the place where I
grew up. I had no memory of the US, a land foreign to me. Big roads, big
brands, big people. Cars on the wrong side of the road. Entrance to the
country was followed by a painful hour at a car rental place. That was
America \-- a place for summer trips and family friends I didn\'t know.
A vestige of my family\'s life before I knew how to speak.

Yet my documents recognized my place of birth \-- Livingstone, New
Jersey \-- and so I was welcomed home. They call border control \"the
first line of defense\". They play a video narrated by the American
president: George W. Bush, then Barack Obama, then Donald Trump when I
moved for college. In London, I observed America from a distance \--
through British news coverage, long-distance phone calls and five to
eight hours of time difference. The country I was born in was changing
all without me.

This July may be the first time I really feel what it\'s like to \"go
back to the states.\" My identity of Americanness has developed,
calloused as I\'ve lived here. When people have asked me where I\'m
from, I defer to where I lived last, which was Berkeley, California. In
Chinese, the \"beautiful country\". The process of saying this again and
again makes me think, \"hey, maybe I am American.\" Being American \--
and of an Indian-background \-- is what uniquely identifies me in
Taiwan. It\'s what makes me an English-speaker, and lets me have my job.

The young, pre-pubescent Rohan might wonder why I enjoy a visit
\"home\". To me now, I reluctantly accept that with my cultural
backgronud, America is the place to go back to. I suppose I\'ll be
[homeward bound](https://youtu.be/4c87TeR7Evs).

at [May 18,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/welcome-home-sir.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/welcome-home-sir.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5505760850469510718&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5505760850469510718&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5505760850469510718&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5505760850469510718&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5505760850469510718&target=pinterest)

### [Willy Nilly Blogging](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/willy-nilly-blogging.html)  {#willy-nilly-blogging .list-paragraph}

I was talking to my friend Andrew today and he said he likes my habit of
\"willy nilly\" blogging. That is, not thinking too hard about something
before publishing and sharing it with the world.

[This blog](https://marginalrevolution.com/) is a good example of this.
Tyler Cowen literally blogs twice a day. A prolific thought producer, or
at least excellent at writing thoughts down (and when thoughts are
written down, they turn into ideas).

I support this but in actuality my blogging is not that willy nilly;
I\'ve only blogged every month or two the past year.

But I just had a spark of inspiration \-- what if I could blog from my
phone? Then I could blog from the Kaohsiung MRT, a Donutes coffee shop,
or Jade Mountain. I\'m not surprised to find that there\'s an app for
that. So that\'s how I\'m blogging now.

at [May 18,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/willy-nilly-blogging.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/05/willy-nilly-blogging.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8671476441710743875&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8671476441710743875&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8671476441710743875&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8671476441710743875&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8671476441710743875&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 14 March 2023 {#tuesday-14-march-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [The battle for myself](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/03/the-battle-for-myself.html)  {#the-battle-for-myself .list-paragraph}

In Jordan Peterson\'s second black horror film, *Us*, the world is split
into two. There are those living normal lives like you or I: walking on
two legs in the bright, open sunshine. And there are those living
underground, the shadow people. Life below is a sorry imitation of life
above the shadows. The shadow children get partially chewed dolls for
Christmas; the people walk with a strange limp and speak raspily. The
worlds are separate until they aren\'t \-- until the moment they
collide.

It was last October that I lost my phone in Kaohsiung City, Taiwan. I
was biking to the pool and had my phone in my swimming trunks. It must
have slipped out on the street because when I was out of the water,
ready to change and head phone, I felt an empty feeling in my left
pocket. I tried calling the police, and calling the phone, and going
back through the streets to search, but eventually I came to acceptance.
It was an old phone and I had backed up practically everything important
last summer before I moved.

It\'s March now and I was more than a little shocked when the ghost of
my phone came to haunt my five months after the fact. My Facebook
account had been hacked. An IP based in Iwaya, Nigeria had changed the
password to my account\... using my old phone number, which was
supposedly deactivated some time ago. By the time I was aware of the
issue, the hacker had changed everything \-- my recovery number, email,
and 2-step authentification so it was impossible to get into my account.
I felt like I was facing this person in Facebook court: they had custody
of my account and all the information, while I had my name, ID, and
charming good lucks.

Our phones, I\'ve noticed before, make us cyborgs in our 21st century
reality. We\'re glued to them at every moment \-- on the subway, in line
for vegetable dumplings, at work under the desk. It\'s our nexus to our
friends and family of past and present. To stroves of information and
any song you can think of. But by nature of being so close to us, it\'s
also a vulnerability. When your phone is hacked or an account is
breached that has tangible power over your life, personal and financial.

I was lamenting my loss of Facebook access to my roommate. He told me he
had been scammed before by someone posing as his then-landlord. They
asked for \$200 via. Apple gift-card and my roommate obliged, thinking
he was doing a favor and would get paid back. When it turned out it was
all a scam, he wallowed for days, thinking about how silly it was to
lose so much money for a stupid trick, and how awful this person
probably in Nigeria was for stealing his money. Then he thought that the
person might not be from Nigeria and in fact thinking so might be a
little racist. I\'ve thought similarly when my bike \-- admittedly
locked flimsily \-- was stolen in London. This is how the shadow people
\-- whoever and wherever they are \-- make a living. At least my shadow
person may plausibly be from Nigeria.

The battle for my Facebook account continues. My and my shadowy self
wrestle back and forth on Facebook\'s invisible servers, our attentions
online but our physical selves perhaps separated by continents. I
frantically close all the portals to my life that my phone may key into,
whilst my hacker posts photos of phallus-looking sweet potatos.

at [March 14,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/03/the-battle-for-myself.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/03/the-battle-for-myself.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7041339864283499078&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7041339864283499078&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7041339864283499078&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7041339864283499078&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7041339864283499078&target=pinterest)

## Monday 6 March 2023 {#monday-6-march-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [Movie shooting Day 1](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/03/movie-shooting-day-1.html)  {#movie-shooting-day-1 .list-paragraph}

 Today I had a terrific day shooting a movie! I got up bright and early
and basically made it on time to Gangshan, the south-most station. I met
two other foreigners there -- we had arranged to ride a taxi together to
the shooting site, which was a ways a way. We waited for another dude,
from Morroco, but he ended up already being there so we just went. The
other guys had been to previous days of filming, but this was also their
first movie. They said previously, the filmmakers had them soaking past
midnight, drenched under a rain machine in loose-fitting clothing. Tough
life, I guess. One of them, a guy from Belgium, had just finished a year
on a student visa in Taiwan. He wants to stay longer, but hasn't found a
good way to. But since Peter -- our agent, I suppose -- kept badgering
him to show up to the filming (virtually), he went to Vietnam, got a
tourist visa and re-entered Taiwan for these days of filming. It only
hit him after filming how background the foreigners really are.

There were two "agents" kind of in-charge of us foreigners. One guy
basically just met us, took attendance, hung around all day and then
paid us in cash before we left. Another woman named Michelle was more
responsible for dragging us around, making sure our bathroom breaks were
quick, and that we returned the costumes and such. She was one of those
brisk Taiwanese people -- especially speaking in English, but I think
Mandarin, too -- and often snappish. I talked to her more casually
before and after we left the actual scene, though, and I'm not so
convinced she loves the film industry, or speaking English, or a
combination of the two, but it's more a job that she happened to land.

At any rate, I learned soon into starting filming more about the film's
location. It's set in Japanese-occupied Malaysia, 1945. Palawa, I think.
The main character is a Taiwanese administrator sent to govern the
colonies. The prisoners of war -- ie. me and the other foreigners -- are
presumably captured British and Americans (of various ethnicities)
working under Japanese rule. I don't know much more than that.

The first shot of the day involved a CGI elephant. It was really a big
car covered in a blue screen pulling an artificial boulder along. One of
the Japanese soldiers whipped it several times until the producer (?)
says 大象倒！and everyone stops and stares. The rest of the scenes today
were shot at the same location. It turns out that the elephant dies, and
some of the other foreign prisoners of war start pulling the artificial
boulder. Then, the artificial boulder runs over the hand of the main
character -- the Taiwenese guy -- and breaks it, leading to an emergency
situation. And that's the extent of what I know of the plot.

The movie was really quite cliquish, and I enjoyed looking around the
scene and chatting to different people. At the start, I saw a
middle-aged man who looked chill enough wearing sweatpants, and as I was
getting my turban put on, I said, "hey what's your name?" in Chinese. He
said, *laoban.* I laughed -- the boss. I suppose he really was The Boss,
responsible for getting investments for the film. And I suppose extra
characters don't often talk to the *laoban*. But he humored me, I guess
curious enough about what an Indian looking American-accenting
*Guoyu-*speaking extra was doing in Southern Taiwan.

The Boss and the Director *(daoyuan)* go by their titles, like I do at
*buxiban*. The director stayed in the director's tent a lot of the time,
where he had a view of each scene as they were shot by the cameras. He
would call *cut* when the course of a shot was done, and would decide
whether a shot would be done again. He spoke through a walkie talkie to
a man I'll call the Producer. The Producer spoke to the Taiwanese
actors, and to the women who spoke English, who then spoke to us. The
Boss and the Director were, by the nature of their title, put on a
pedestal, and certainly above us puny extra actors. Yet still, when they
tried to speak English I internally scoffed, and thought how my
nine-year-olds at Schoolhouse would whip them in an English contest.

There were countless others on set. The costume ladies, who put on our
make-up and seemed ever amazed at how fast the water they sprayed on the
actors -- fake sweat -- dried in the sun. The camera dudes, with their
large tripods and cameras and boba tea. The sound folk, who had a muted
and unmuted recorder. Then many other people -- agents, the mom of a
kid, assistants and I'm not sure who else -- who didn't have an obvious
job related to the filming of the movie but more to do with organization
and getting things for people who were.

I talked about half and half with the foreign prisoners of war and our
captors, the Japanese soldiers. The Japanese soldiers were of course
Taiwanese dudes. Mostly in their late twenties, they had been in many
plays before and studied theater in university. They live as
freelancers, and two of them told me they found the gig just on
Facebook. (The one exception was a guy was playing the Japanese general,
who was actually Japanese, but spoke excellent Mandarin,
indistinguishable to me from a Taiwanese person).

The Japanese soldiers were incredibly fun to talk to. I had a real
moment in the morning with one who used to work at a jazz bar. He said
(in Chinese), "you heard about the Wynton Marselis concert?" Yes, and we
both said at the same time, "in Weiwuying. Yes. Are you going? No, not
this time." We laughed at that as the Producer shouted "stand-by" and
"action" and I started putting rocks in a basket again. Anyways, this
guy is a real jazz appreciator; when he worked at the jazz bar, Marselis
(in Kaohsiung) he would see high-quality live concerts all the time.
Before he started politics and policy at university. He studied rhetoric
and did his Master's thesis about Trump's speeches and how they appeal
to crowds. Most of his classmates went on to become speech writers, but
he made a turn into bartending and now movies/theater. Another guy,
Little Shen, reads philosophy books in his spare time. He happened to
also be headed back to the Cultural Center, so we got dinner and it
turned out he is also vegetarian! Amazing. His girlfriend lives in
Taipei and works at a company that makes Indian clothes for Taiwanese
consumers.

I was incredibly enthusiastic at the beginning of filming, and my smile
showed it. Almost excessive, but I unashamedly looked at every detail of
the filming. The blue screen, the screens the Director would see, the
way that they lit fire in front of the camera to emulate heat waves. I
made jokes to everyone I could and soaked up the compliments on my
Mandarin, which was the best of the foreigners (I was asked to translate
at one point, but then they stopped, and instead just addressed me in
Mandarin by my Chinese name *Tianlan*). I enjoyed a truly immersive
experience, and I enjoyed being able to interface with the Taiwanese
staff members of all types in a way the other *waiguoren* couldn't. As
the day wore on, I grew weary, and I began to understand the fatigue
that most others had been experiencing for a couple weeks now. The
filming starts early, goes consistently for 10-12 hours, and requires a
lot of patience to get each shot right. The actors have to dress up in
make-up each time and everyone has to be high-alert on the lookout for
anything that looks out of place or inconsistent, at times very late
into the night, and if something has to be done over, it would be very
costly. Connections are fleeting on set -- many different companies or
freelancers are involved and there isn't much team-bonding. It's mostly
people doing what they're told to do, or people telling other people
what to do. When everyone's done with this gig, they find
something/someone else to work for and don't think about it much ever
again. I was ready to go home at sunset, but like everyone else stayed
until we finished the final shot.

Yet I find great comradery among the actors, and I admire the Taiwanese
soldier guys for the work they put into acting. My new friend Woody
(*hudi)* said he doesn't get so dejected by not making an audition
anymore. He's done it many, many times. No, if he thinks his performance
was bad, he'll just go outside, smoke a cigarette, and move on to the
next one. There's a practically -- and a devotion to his craft -- that I
admire immensely, and I said as much on the car-ride back.

at [March 06,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/03/movie-shooting-day-1.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/03/movie-shooting-day-1.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9204850027227773710&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9204850027227773710&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9204850027227773710&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9204850027227773710&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9204850027227773710&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 17 January 2023 {#tuesday-17-january-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [2023-01 Semiannual Update](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/2023-01-semiannual-update.html)  {#semiannual-update-2 .list-paragraph}

Hello hello!

Happy New Year! This is the second installment of my biannual life
update to friends and family. Keeping in touch is a two-way street, so
please do feel free to share your updates \-- long or short \-- back my
way.

In this issue I\'ve writing about teaching English, Chinese language
study, and adulting in Taiwan.

Be well all\... and happy Year of the Rabbit!

Rohan

**Teaching English**

Amazingly, I\'ve been teaching for over five months now. For many hours
in a day, I\'m the de facto adult in the room: the enforcer of rules,
the master of ceremonies, the entertainer. Being a student is far easier
\-- you just listen to someone talk, take notes or do worksheets. But
teaching kids I hardly ever have a moment\'s rest. I must my eyes on the
kids around the room whilst ideating our next activity whilst teaching
why Sam-I-am does not want green eggs and ham. Do the kids want \"duck,
duck, goose\" or \"the jumping game\" next?

Some memorable moments have been telling a boy off for writing
\"f\*#\$\" on the whiteboard, asking young Anne how she wanted to deal
with her tooth that fell out during class, and scaring a first grader
with my (I guess) creepy clown costume. It\'s at these times that I
think \-- wow, I really am an adult.

The students themselves are wonderful. They\'re inventive, hard-working,
playful, fun. We operate in a \"language-immersion\" setting which means
that they\'re only allowed to speak English (otherwise we do terrible
things like take away stars or hold them after class). And even with
their understandably limited vocabularies, I feel their personalities in
full force. Each class is complete with its own class clowns,
trouble-makers and do-gooders. I see myself in the kids \-- the quiet
boy doing his homework early or the chatty bunch all feels like me at
different ages.

I\'ve learned a great deal about English itself. Why is it that \"she
teaches\" but \"I teach\" but \"we both taught\"? When do you say \"I
saw that movie\" vs \"I have seen that movie\"? And did you know you can
*invent* an *invention* but you can\'t *solute* a *solution*? English is
a wild thing, especially for 7-13 year-olds. And it\'s wildly different
from Chinese, a language entirely without articles, past/future tense
and even an alphabet. I\'m slowly learning to find order in the chaos,
and ways to present it all best to second language learners.

Teaching is a challenge, no doubt. But it makes me think and keeps me
motivated and feels like something worth getting out of bed for.

*related blogpost*
[*here*](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/one-month-later-in-taiwan.html)

**Chinese**

Being in Taiwan is of course a way for me to be immersed in Mandarin,
the official language of the island (they also speak [Taiwanese
Hokkien](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwanese_Hokkien), though not
often in official contexts; and there\'s Hakka and a number of
indigenous languages). I was thrilled when I arrived to find out that my
Chinese is better than most people\'s English. That\'s been helpful,
because though people like to practice their English and know a fair few
words, they have little practice stringing together sentences and
navigating the relatively complex subject of English grammar.

Which is to say I\'ve gotten my fair share of Chinese practice. At times
too much. When I first got here it hit me how much I don\'t know in
Chinese. My 7 years of study in middle/high school felt like it got me
nowhere except \"Hello. I am American. What is your favorite color?\".
Conversations deviate rather quickly from that. My roommate Leon has had
an excellent ear for Mandarin from the start \-- his parents are
Taiwanese \-- and so I\'ve often envied his ways of grasping the gist of
a conversation.

But things have improved. I\'ve been intentional about my study \-- much
moreso than I was in school \-- and had plenty of places to learn new
words and their applications. So after these six months, I feel
confident taking phone calls, communicating via. text; and doing things
like buying a new phone and or going to a Chinese-only speaking dentist
(we made it work). I went to a co-worker\'s New Year\'s party and
learned about my colleague\'s friend who\'s done ship maintenance in the
Falkland Islands (in Chinese). It\'s the little things that make me feel
the 成就感 (sense of accomplishment). It\'s quite the feeling to
successfully fire off horrid dad jokes or make small talk \-- it tells
me I\'m getting somewhere. Of course many topics continue to elude my
grasp. You\'d find my thoughts on Korean dramas and mattress firmness
rather lacking, to name a couple examples.

Language learning continues to be extremely fascinating. On the one
hand, it seems to get harder and harder the more I do it (as I [wrote
about](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/swimming-with-fishes-or-my-english-is.html)
recently); but it also grows increasingly intoxicating. I feel closer
day-by-day to understanding current events and the political climate in
the Chinese-speaking world. Fascinating, to say the least, and markedly
differnent from the struggles in Western politics. To some extent I
believe in that old cliche quote, \"to speak another language is to
possess another soul.\"

*related blogpost
[here](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/language-learning-just-two-cents.html)
and the [one linked
above](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/swimming-with-fishes-or-my-english-is.html)*

**Adulting in Taiwan**

Being in Taiwan has also been my first time \"adulting\" in full force.
I mean adulting in the way of having a real job, a paycheck every two
weeks, bills and rent to pay, money to manage\... the whole nine yards.

Most relevant is perhaps the fact of not being in a university
environment. College friends and social circles are ready-made through
classes, clubs and the campus space. But in Kaohsiung, a city of 3
million people, community must be intentionally sought after. In
Chinese, they have a handy word 約 (yuē) which means to arrange time
with someone. 約 maybe has become my middle-name, in that I do it as
often as I can. But I think that\'s the kind of proactivity that it
takes to be social out in the real world. I\'ve done my best to find my
people. I do language exchange with two friends every Friday night; I
play badminton with a group of people (who I just walked up to in a
park) near work; I take a flute class at a Buddhist temple with a bunch
of middle-aged ladies. And there\'s people I\'ve met at restaurants or
through animal rights activism who\'ve turned into good friends. I feel
grateful for the people I\'ve met, but there are times I feel lonely,
maybe just by nature of being so far from my family and home of four
years. I think that\'s part of adulting, as well \-- to be comfortable
in your own skin. I\'m ever grateful for my buddy Leon, who came from
Berkeley with me to teach and learn Chinese as well. Having a friend,
roommate, and companion for this life transition has been really
invaluable.

I\'ve felt light on responsibility here, and in many ways that feels
weird. In university it felt like there was so much I could and had to
be doing at every moment. But in the work-force (if you can call
teaching kids \"the work-force\"), I come home from class and basically
have complete freedom over what I want to do. I\'ve read a couple
novels; sometimes I read books about Taiwanese/Chinese history and
politics; I listen to Mandarin podcasts and endlessly review flashcards;
I\'ve gone biking late out on the city streets. Being free and
financially independent is quite a trip. Did you know I could buy boba
tea every day, and sometimes do?

And then there\'s Kaohsiung as a city. People say that Taiwan is the
heart of Asia, because people are so damn nice here. It\'s true. And
it\'s especially true in the South. People are always open to talking to
strangers, helping you on the street, or cutting you a discount on boba
tea if you\'re missing a quarter. Kaohsiung\'s lacking in touristy stuff
\-- in fact, if you came my best recommendation might be the public
library. But to me, what feels more important is the day-to-day. In my
own way, I feel myself becoming a Kaohsiung-er\... learning the names of
Kaohsiung\'s streets, relaxingly into my morning cup of tea, and gifting
guava to friends (the Taiwanese don\'t hug, but they have other ways of
saying 我愛你).

Many people ask, both here and in the states, how long I\'ll stay in
Taiwan, and what I plan to do next. I normally reply by flexing one of
the two Chinese proverbs I know:且看且走 (to see as you walk) or
順其自然 (to let nature take its course). In English, I think that means
I\'ll stay until something else calls out to me, or until I feel I\'m no
longer living life to its fullest. Which basically means, I don\'t know,
and that\'s part of the fun.

at [January 17,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/2023-01-semiannual-update.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/2023-01-semiannual-update.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3471173932137011773&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3471173932137011773&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3471173932137011773&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3471173932137011773&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3471173932137011773&target=pinterest)

## Thursday 12 January 2023 {#thursday-12-january-2023 .list-paragraph}

### [\"Swimming with the fishes\" or \"My English is really good\"](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/swimming-with-fishes-or-my-english-is.html)  {#swimming-with-the-fishes-or-my-english-is-really-good .list-paragraph}

How good is my English? Really, quite good. In fact, yours is too, if
you can understand every word I\'ve used in my blog. I\'m beginning to
understand that being fluent in a language is no easy task. It took me
two decades to get to my level with a sponge-like, child\'s brain and a
fully immersive English environment. And not to brag, but I was speaking
rather fluent English by maybe age 6. From then on, my diction and
sophistication has only grown.

It sounds like a flex \-- but this is the case for I believe about half
a billion people in the world. And for the remaining several billion,
another language serves as their \"mother tongue\". For the second
language learner, though, learning English is a monumental task. One
that even after a whole lifetime could be said to be incomplete. The
second language learner doesn\'t have the same intuitive grasp of
diction, rhythm, or pronunciation that the native speaker is blessed
with from a young age. Perhaps if they are lucky, they live in a country
where English is spoken, and from can catch the thrown-about phrases
from people on the streets. Yet that doesn\'t mean you\'ll easily learn
the English used in novels, policy memos, or political manifestos \--
that work has to be done day-by-day for years on end. Learning a
language is like trying to swim among the fishes.

Some days it seems that learning Chinese becomes harder and harder the
more I do it. Imagine a slowly expanding ball of knowledge; in the
beginning, it only contains a few polite phrases (你好, 謝謝,
我是美國人); but over time, it grows and grows, and so too does its
surrounding area. After long enough, it encompasses all the
\"conversational topics\" it could ever have imagined; but the
conversations get longer and longer; and its aspirations grow and grow;
and it realizes that topics like the geography of Taiwan\'s Jade
Mountain and the pros and cons of nuclear power require their own
specific set of vocabulary and fluency; and the ball wonders if
attaining such mass is ever possible.

The de facto ideal for Chinese learners is set by reknown foreign
\"Sinologists\". Also called \"China experts\", \"China hands\", or
\"China watchers\", these are foreign professionals that have studied
Chinese for many decades and made their careers out of mastering and
utilizing their proficiency in the language. Take [this
clip](https://youtu.be/owsRB4IKJyA) of Perry Link (林培瑞), a literature
professor, comparing the Chinese administrations of Xi Jinping and Mao
Zedong. To the untrained ear, it\'s impossible to tell that he\'s not a
native Beijing-er (I include myself in this categorization). Yet a
native Chinese speaker might tell you that his grammar has English
influences, or that his \"zh\" or \"ü\" are not quite right. Another
interesting example is Reverend László Ladányi, a Hungarian-born Jesuit
priest (1914-1990). He specialized in interpreting the public statements
of the Chinese Communist Party that was and are layeered in rich
language, idioms and CCP-only allusions**.** László Ladányi was perhaps
the only Westerner able to decipher such documents in the 1950s and 60s.
Now, many more such burgeoning academics exist.

It seems to me that each of these students of Chinese gave up a great
deal to \"master\" the language. Language, like rocket science or brain
surgery, is something anyone can do *if* they dedicate themselves to it.
The more pertinent question may be \-- are you willing to do what it
takes? It\'s rather like Wormtail cutting off his arm in Harry Potter,
or Voldemort carving his soul into seven pieces\...  Of course, learning
Chinese is hardly a torturous process. Yet its opportunity costs are
real, and it\'s benefits are uncertain; and certainly not as monetizable
as a more practical language like C++ or Python.

I haven\'t made any horcruxes. Nor have I sprouted any gils. But you can
catch me out here in Kaohsiung City, swimming with the fishes.

at [January 12,
2023](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/swimming-with-fishes-or-my-english-is.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2023/01/swimming-with-fishes-or-my-english-is.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4716019986272721245&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4716019986272721245&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4716019986272721245&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4716019986272721245&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4716019986272721245&target=pinterest)

## Sunday 27 November 2022 {#sunday-27-november-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [Language Learning, just two cents](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/language-learning-just-two-cents.html)  {#language-learning-just-two-cents .list-paragraph}

Between teaching Chinese and learning, I\'ve found myself spending a
great deal of my waking hours thinking about language learning. It\'s
not as overwhelming as it sounds. Language learning is rich and contains
many elements. Right now, I have some sort of a system \-- not so rigid
and not so regimented, but a system nonetheless. So I figure I\'d
explain it in words.

I see learning languages as a layer of practices. 

Practice 1: Vocabulary acquisition. Vocabulary is the first thing you
can feasibly start with in any language, and in my eyes direct focus on
vocabulary ought to continue as long as you can stand it. Even being in
Taiwan, I don\'t feel I\'m exposed to vocabulary (either in speech or
writing) often enough to memorize it passively (nor is my memory that
impressive). So I \"go to the gym\" for vocabulary. I try to do so every
day using a program called Anki. Anki arranges flashcards so that you
see words just when you\'re about to forget them. Forcing you to recall
information at this point makes it create deeper connections in your
brain. And hence, at a certain point the word will be in your long-term
memory. I only add words I\'ve heard used in conversation or seen in a
reading somewhere so that I have some association with it (more
association, the easier to memorize) and know how it\'s used.

Practice 2: Active reading/listening. There are many language learning
podcasts for Mandarin Chinese that speak slower Mandarin (or mixed with
English) and provide a transcript. Following along with both is great to
create the audio-visual association (and it\'s strictly necessary for a
non-phonetic language like Chinese). I also try to find readings at my
skill-level (recently, the Chairman\'s Bao has been great for this) that
also have audio recordings of their articles (or worst case, you can
plug text you\'re reading into the audio function of Google translate).
My kids at cram school also do this for all our readings. For them (and
sometimes for me), it comes along with \"shadow reading\", which is
repeating under your breath after a native speaker so that you get used
to creating the sounds with your mouth.

Practice 3: Grammar study. Textbooks, online resources, or a language
teacher are essential for building grammar concepts. I\'ve found that in
Chinese, grammar is beautifully elegant (and simple) but still so
radically different from English that it\'s hard to know how exactly to
use (or when to apply certain concepts). So drilling grammar and then
getting feedback on your writing from someone who knows what they\'re
talking about is important. I imagine this is even more true for
Romantic/Germanic/other languages where grammar is even more layered,
inconsistent and messy\... sometimes unintuitive sentences go into my
Anki, because what you can\'t create from scratch sometimes has to just
be rote memorize. It\'s in this part that a teacher is helpful for
identifying your mistakes, or at least someone who\'s willing to give
you feedback (on writing, for instance, since in writing you have time
to be intentional about what words you use).

Practice 4: Practice. I believe this is best done at your skill level,
kind of like having a sparring partner. Or if you\'re like me and
fortunate to live in the country whose language you are studying, \"the
streets\" can serve as great conversation practice. It\'s also important
to have deeper conversations with friends or a teacher about different
topics, as much as you can. It\'s in these circumstances where I feel
most lacking in my vocabulary, or my grammar feels overly simplistic,
and I\'m drawn back to practices 1-3.

at [November 27,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/language-learning-just-two-cents.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/language-learning-just-two-cents.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5399560398151492897&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5399560398151492897&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5399560398151492897&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5399560398151492897&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5399560398151492897&target=pinterest)

## Friday 18 November 2022 {#friday-18-november-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [Prices in Taiwan](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/prices-in-taiwan.html)  {#prices-in-taiwan .list-paragraph}

Prices are interesting and sometimes hard to understand. In Taiwan, it
feels like things are priced completely different to in the West and
I\'m trying to make sense of it.

Category 1: Local goods and services. The cheapest things in Taiwan are
the things I find myself buying most often. Rent; bubble tea, fruit
juice; restaurant food; massages; tour guides; Chinese lessons. I think
these things are cheap because they can\'t be sold abroad for a higher
profit. The only demand is local Taiwanese people. Salaries here are (on
average, I think) about a third of those in America (but since these
important goods are also cheap, it means life is not so bad). My metric,
which I think so far works, is to divide every price by 10. You see,
there\'s 30 NTD to 1 USD. So if you divide the NTD price by 10 and then
compare that price to what you\'d pay in the USD (specifically,
Berkeley/SF) then you can see what\'s reasonable and what\'s ripping you
off.

Category 2: Rich people\'s local goods and services. Some restaurants or
places in Taiwan cater to relatively wealthy clientale. These people may
be making a Western salary or work for an international business in
Taiwan and so their salaries \-- though modest in the West \-- lets them
buy absurdly expensive things in Taiwan. Of course, it\'s all a matter
of expensive. A burger costing 10\$ in the US is sometimes a great deal;
but in Taiwan, it means you\'re living the high life. I\'ve found
foreigner settings are like this; as are stores in Taipei or upscale
establishments in Kaohsiung.

Category 3: Exportable/imported goods. This is where my divide by ten
metric breaks down. Did you know that a small jar of Skippy\'s peanut
butter costs 6 USD here?? Absurd, but I pay it nonetheless. Skippy\'s
peanut butter, iPhones and other gadgets, USB cables, watches,
saxophones, bikes all fall in this upper-tier price-range. They\'re
things that your standard person still needs to buy \-- including
groceries! \-- but I think because it\'s possible to export such
products abroad, they charge standard international prices here
(otherwise everyone would buy their laptops in Taiwan and fly them out
to America later). Some things, like the peanut butter, are even more
expensive here than in America because of shipping fees, I suppose. So
strangely, a grocery store I think is one of the most expensive shops
around (you\'re better off going to a fresh market, where the food is
cheaper because it can\'t be exported abroad).

So there you have it, a little bit about living abroad, pricing strategy
and international trade.

at [November 18,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/prices-in-taiwan.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/prices-in-taiwan.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7017114661643213104&target=pinterest)

### [Inputs and outputs](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/inputs-and-outputs.html)  {#inputs-and-outputs .list-paragraph}

I had a new idea occur to me yesterday as I was biking, so I\'m going to
chew it over here.

I was thinking about the question, \"how do you define success?\"
Everyone has their own definition, of course. But I imagine that most
definitions have something to do with a weighted combination of these
factors:

-   Friendships and community

-   Artistic output

-   Good health and athleticism

-   Legacy (via. children, organizations)

-   Career success or impact (not directed correlated with money)

-   Money (net worth, income)

When I break down success into these aspects, I can more or less imagine
what my goals are. For instance, artistic output: to make music, to be
able to draw or blog and make things that are worth reading or listening
to. With friendships, it\'s to have a lot of cool people around me that
I enjoy being around. That\'s all great.

The point of this blog post is that these things are *outputs* not
*inputs* to life. For instance, you can put a lot of effort into making
friends and search all over town for your people, but it\'s not a given
that you\'ll find them. That depends on the city you live in, what
organizations are around, the personality of your city/town, *in
addition* to your own friend-making mindset. The same thing goes for
money, career success, good health, etc. You can put effort and orient
your life around those things, but that doesn\'t mean necessarily that
you\'ll be \"successful\" in those respects.

It\'s cliche, but a lot of trouble comes when we base our self-worth on
things outside of our control. It\'s cliche and yet, I still find myself
doing it. This person runs a 5k faster than I do; this person earns more
money than me; this person has a more active social life. Of course,
their output may make them look more \"successful\" but you actually may
have been putting in more work!

But what are the inputs to this equation? Inputs are things that we can
directly adjust about our own life. It doesn\'t require help from our
external environments, it just requires you reading, learning, and
digging deep. Not easy, but possible, and within your control. I thought
of three important inputs:

-   Skills

-   Mindset/personality

-   Routine

Let me explain. 

Skills. Pretty simple, but it helps to see how this connects to life
outputs. Skills are things like learning a language, computer
programming, mathematics, public speaking. Most people want to learn
skills for some external reason \-- it can help them get a job or pursue
a hobby. Skills grow slowly but I do think that they\'re mostly in your
control. You can learn almost anything from Youtube, reading books
(which you can pirate), etc. With good skills you can advance your
career, make money, produce more artistic content, etc. Of course, there
is some reverse causality; with more money you can hire a coach or
teacher for certain skills. Still, even people with all the money in the
world don\'t learn (say) how to play the piano faster. They maybe just
have more time and focus to dedicate to it.

Mindset. Now this is a hard one, but important. I think your mindset
affects all sorts of things in your life: your resilience, your
persistence with things you want to pursue, your attitude towards
meeting people or maintaining connects. Being a go-getter, being
out-going (when needed) or fully focused on studying (when needed) are
all traits of a good personality (to me), but that depends on what
outputs you\'re orienting towards. A lot of people I think are
successful in companies or in certain jobs because they have a good
mindset for it, and that lets them learn the requisite skills. For
instance, in computer programming you have to have the persistence to
debug and debug until you find the issue. In teaching (my job right
now), you must stay above the whims of every single student and keep the
goal of the lesson in mind. Mindset can be cultivated by reflection,
meditation, reading books, practicing good thought-patterns. But as with
anything we start with a certain mindset given by our parents, teachers,
and peers.

Routine. I\'ve found that routine is important for actually deploying /
growing skills and making use of a good mindset. For instance, you can
have a great mindset and skill at learning a foreign language but if you
don\'t carve out time in your schedule for it regularly, you won\'t
really progress \[see note below\].

I think there\'s a lot of ways that these three things \-- skills,
mindset, and routine \-- factor into your outputs. Too many combinations
to discuss here\... but regardless, the point is that to define
\"success\" you should look at inputs: what you\'re putting into your
life. You may disagree on what exact inputs you believe are important or
relevant to your life but there are some for everybody. Outputs, again,
vary by the person but all of them are too unpredictable. Tracking
something out of your control might make your feel bad, or (worse yet)
give you an inflated ego.

And so going forward I want to thing about my inputs. Am I focusing on
developing skills that I care about and enjoy? Am I cultivating a
positive mindset in my endeavors (social, professional, interest-wise)?
And am I establishing a consistent routine in my life to make use of my
time? Whoosh. Big questions, and I\'m no self-help blogger, so best I
stay away from topics like these.

Note: About time. Time is interesting \-- is it an input or an output?
Some people always are yearning for more time; students, working
professionals, well really anyone. But some people have more time than
they know what to do with, like kids on summer vacation. Time I think
has to be combined with a routine, mindset, or skill you\'re focusing on
to be put to good use. I\'d say time is an environmental factor. At a
given stage in your life, you can\'t really control how much of it you
have. But you can routinize it so that it\'s better structured.

at [November 18,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/inputs-and-outputs.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/11/inputs-and-outputs.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3898743492653098655&target=pinterest)

## Saturday 3 September 2022 {#saturday-3-september-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [The beginnings of wisdom](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/09/the-beginnings-of-wisdom.html)  {#the-beginnings-of-wisdom .list-paragraph}

This week I had the first signs of wisdom. For years I had seen it
coming, it and its three siblingns. It emerged from the back of my
mouth. It pained my head and ears and mouth and throat and made it hard
to eat. And now, it is here. It makes me wonder \-- what left do I have
in the realm of my dental development? And does this \"wisdom tooth\"
really make me so wise? I think not\... though some say that is the
beginnings of wisdom.

at [September 03,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/09/the-beginnings-of-wisdom.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/09/the-beginnings-of-wisdom.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1493990367100436206&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1493990367100436206&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1493990367100436206&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1493990367100436206&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1493990367100436206&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 31 August 2022 {#wednesday-31-august-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [One month later in Taiwan](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/one-month-later-in-taiwan.html)  {#one-month-later-in-taiwan .list-paragraph}

The end of this week marks my first month of teaching in Taiwan, and
five whole weeks in the country.

Teaching has also been a great joy. According to my visa status, it\'s
why I\'m in the country. It\'s a job that pays well \-- especially by
local standards \-- and allows me to buy an inordinate number of
watermelon smoothies each month. 

I teach four different groups of kids, each meeting twice a week: one
group of little ones (7-9 years old); one slightly older bunch; one
group that\'s 10-12; and an \"advanced\" class that\'s around 12-14. I
think they\'re all wonderful, thoughtful, hardworking kids in their own
ways, and every day I get to know them a little better. I\'ve learned
that my littlest class loves to draw, color, sing, and make art. I\'ve
learned that my most energetic classes love to \"shake it out\" and do
an exercise break in the middle of class. I\'ve learned that my oldest
class can tackle the social deduction game Werewolf, and can even have a
debate about whether kids should have smart devices (all in a second
language!). I\'ve learned that some of my most vocal kids \-- the
CEO-types \-- have horrible grammar compared to their classmates, and
sometimes the child quietly in the corner has got every unit nailed and
is just waiting to ace the test.

I\'ve learned a great number of things about the English language. I\'ve
learned that it\'s very hard to know when to put \"the\" before a noun.
I\'ve learned that past tense verbs are extremely inconsistent \-- and
honestly I feel horrible that these children have to memorize \"bring \>
brought, fall \> fell, catch \> caught\" till their eyeballs fall out.
I\'ve learned that more often then not, when I see a mistake in a
sentence I have no idea how *why* it\'s wrong according to English
grammar rules \-- and that frustrates me to know end. If English were a
programming language, it would\'ve been made obselete decades ago for
it\'s stringiness, ridiculous taxonomy, and bizarre structural design.

My co-workers at school have been a welcome community. We English
teachers congregate for twenty minutes in the breakroom every Wednesday
and Friday, when most of us have a full day of seven hours of teaching.
I wolf down my lunch and listen to their stories, occasionally asking
\"where\'s a good dentist around Kaohsiung\" and receiving a host of
recommendations. I\'m friendly with the Chinese staff, and often
overwhelmed with gratitude when they drop everything to teach me how to
put staples in a stapler, or copy unit tests for a class in ten minutes.

Outside of teaching and talking to my roommate, Leon, I operate mostly
in Mandarin. I\'m simultaneously pleased with how much my Mandarin is
improving and overwhelmed by how far I need to go. I feel like I can
articulate myself, my feelings, my thoughts. I\'ve told people about why
I want to study Chinese in Mandarin; I\'ve told people why I\'m vegan,
and specifically why I don\'t eat eggs and milk; I\'ve told people how
\"I\'m American\... though my parents are Indian\" more times than I can
count. I can ask questions to people about their lives, how to get to
the nearest YouBike station, what there is to do in Taiwan. And
sometimes, their answers are intelligible. Yet when I hear native
speakers talking at a break-neck pace, or when I hear the news or glance
at a menu or a newspaper, I feel like my years of study have amounted to
nothing. Though I can articulate myself, my speech lacks the color of my
language skills English. My words are imprecise and often incorrectly
ordered or otherwise deployed. Never am I certain I\'m doing something
right, yet by sheer necessity, I go for it anyways.

It has helped a great deal here that people in Taiwan are incredibly
friendly. I had heard that before but didn\'t realize the full extent to
which it was true. I feel very welcomed from everyone, including: my
landlord Michael, who drove me and three others to Kending; the Laoban
(boss) at my daily stop \"Mama Zhang\'s Vegetarian\"; the ladies running
the fruit stall on Sanduo road, conveniently on my walk back from work;
Carrie, the doorman at the apartment, who loves learning new English
words; the man who sits at a coffeeshop down the street translating
heavy English books about Chinese historiography; a new friend of mine
from Brazil who teaches drumming to kids here and comes most days to
Mama Zhang\'s as well. People ask me where I\'m from, they compliment my
Mandarin (people\'s expectations are incredibly low for foreigner\'s
Chinese level), and how I\'m doing, and sometimes they teach me new
words or phrases. It\'s more than I could expect of strangers or
acquaintances anywhere, let alone in a new and hitherto foreign country.

With all that, at times I feel at a loss for friend-making in a new
city. I\'ve only experienced one move before: from London to Berkeley.
It was hard then too, but I was encompassed by the thriving college life
with countless groups and people to meet. In post-grad, things seem
different. Life rhythms are slowly, and socializing centers around the
weekend, when most everyone\'s free. I\'ve felt great empathy for people
who move to a new country knowing no one, not knowing the language, and
trying to build a life. In a new city, I don\'t know yet how to plug
myself in. I have aspirations like playing saxophone, badminton/ping
pong, running, but little idea of how to make them come trrue. In a new
place, chancing upon regularly occuring groups \-- something akin to a
group of friends \-- is a special treasure. I\'ve had some good
encounters \-- a language exchange group off Facebook, a saxophone choir
that plays old Chinese songs, and some folks playing badminton near my
work! \-- and so I\'m hopeful that something to stick. Still, moving is
hard. I\'m grateful that my job lifts my spirits and I have Leon to talk
with, otherwise things would be even harder.

The mid-Autumn Festival is next week here in Taiwan. Though I\'ve
studied the vocab words in Chinese class, I\'m excited to experience it
in-person. And perhaps I\'m more excited for Kaohsiung\'s summer heat to
die down, so maybe walking outside in the afternoon will be more
bearable. 

at [August 31,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/one-month-later-in-taiwan.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/one-month-later-in-taiwan.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3005307541490932907&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3005307541490932907&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3005307541490932907&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3005307541490932907&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3005307541490932907&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 2 August 2022 {#tuesday-2-august-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [A morning in Kaohsiung](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/a-morning-kaohsiung.html)  {#a-morning-in-kaohsiung .list-paragraph}

This morning I walked outside for the first time in Taiwan! What a
lovely experience. People were quite friendly. I got the sense that it's
a bigish city so not super common to talk to people, but some people
still said "zao" or "ni hao". I looked into the courtyard of some
retirement complex and an old man -- I didn't understand his occupation,
but looked like a cleaner or garbageman? -- said "how do you do?" in
English. It was funny, kinda with a Texan accent. He asked me in Chinese
what I'm doing in Taiwan and I told him. In general, I think a lot of
people were looking at me cause I stick out being a foreigner (when I
looked back, they quickly glanced in a different direction). I only saw
one other foreigner -- a 30-something bald guy walking a beagle at the
park.

I mostly saw old people around town, since I set off at 6am. I enjoyed
looking around at 7-11. They are super common and seem pretty useful --
they have printing, garbage, different foods, toys, etc. 7-11 was the
only brand I recognized. I can't say for sure, but it seemed like here,
there were mostly small businesses and restaurants, though some fancier,
perhaps multi-restaurant chains here and there. It's a nice contrast to
Berkeley/America, where almost half of the businesses you see are
national / multi-national chains. Around the 7-11 and the MRT there were
some young people at / heading to work. The MRT at the Central Park was
incredible in its design, even though all I saw was the escalator. I
also saw one ad for a city-council candidate. I believe the local
elections are in November, much like in the US.

My favorite part was the Central Park here in Kaohsiung, which was 15ish
minutes from where I'm staying. It's a beautiful place with a lake,
island in the lake, bridges. Lots of groups of old men and women doing
Taichi. Some playing tennis, or stretching, or massaging their backs on
the trees. The best sight was a group of old ladies who were using the
thick roots of an old tree as a place to lounge. No chairs, but they
were all sitting or leaning on the undergrowth (which was in the air)
and vibing. Like elves, truly. If I grow old, I hope I can live in
Taiwan or be as active as all these people. One old guy even did
pull-ups after me, he said, "hen bu cuo. Hen bang." I was flattered, but
really, he's the "bang" one.

The streets here are super large. Like, five lanes wide on the biggest
streets, and 2-4 on the small ones. I wonder if there are places in the
city which are more pedestrian (maybe the night markets), or if those
settings are more found in Taipei. I enjoyed walking through the alley
ways which were adorned with plants, and some small businesses and
homes. On the biggest streets, there were loads of vehicles whizzing by
-- many cars and many more scooters. They were all going very fast. And
my, at one traffic light there was a huge slew of scooters at the front
of the line. I saw a good number of people biking (maybe about one third
of the number of scooters). On the big roads, I was pleased to see that
there were sidewalks, and the sidewalks were big enough to bike on, so
it's safer than being on the road. In general, Kaohsiung so far reminded
me of Bangalore of Chennai, except everything's in Chinese.

I've had some degree of sensory deprivation sitting in this hotel room.
So it was incredibly vibrant and refreshing to go out. Maybe we should
make it a worldwide requirement for tourists to spend 3 full days in a
hotel before they see the country they're visiting.

at [August 02,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/a-morning-kaohsiung.html) [1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/a-morning-kaohsiung.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7839048156083221662&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7839048156083221662&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7839048156083221662&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7839048156083221662&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7839048156083221662&target=pinterest)

## Monday 1 August 2022 {#monday-1-august-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [2022-08 Semiannual Update](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/2022-07-semiannual-update.html)  {#semiannual-update-3 .list-paragraph}

Hello there!

I\'ve realized that as life goes on and I meet more people and live in
more places, it becomes challenging to keep in touch with everyone on
how our lives are going.

So here\'s my solution: an email list! I plan on sending it out just
twice a year (around January & July). This way, I can share about my
life and elaborate more than I could in an Instagram post description.

This list also makes me remember to keep in touch with family and
friends, past and present. If you are reading this and it\'s been a
while since we\'ve talked, drop me a line, long or short! I hope we can
catch up soon.

So onto the updates! In this post: Graduation, Music & Arts, Research,
and Taiwan.

Warmly,

Rohan

**Graduation**

It\'s hard to believe but in May I did graduate from UC Berkeley! I
thouroughly enjoyed my time there, and I was especially grateful for
this last year being in-person.
![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image15.jpeg){width="1.0416666666666667in"
height="1.3888888888888888in"}

Graduation was quite the riot. The stadium was unbearably hot, and the
audio quality sucked. So all the famous people on-stage spoke to a
fidgetty and distracted crowd of students on the field of Memorial
Stadium. I had a great time nonetheless \-- it was like a 6,000 person
mixer! After graduation, I spent a week with my parents in Yosemite
National Park. 

And then I stayed in Berkeley for a few weeks packing up and saying
goodbye to friends. I will miss my friends, the joy of being a student,
the charms of the city and Berkeleyans.

**Music & Arts**

This last semester was an extremely fruitful time for me. Since I had
finished most requirements for the economics degree, I was fortunate
enough to take two performing arts classes. One was theater, where we
did various scenes and monologs and even musical theater throughout the
semester. I had a wonderful, energetic teacher and most other students
in the class were sweet young freshmen, so it was a wholesome time. A
recording of me doing a Forrest Gump monolog is
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvw-8N6sMrI&ab_channel=rohantohab)
on Youtube.

I also took a class in jazz improvisation and reconnected with my study
of the saxophone. I had another [incredible
teacher](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/office-hours-with-ben-goldberg.html).
We focused partly on music theory and partly on free jazz and playing
*like you mean it*. That last part really struck a chord in me\...
Before, I was used to reading the notes on a page and playing them as
accurately as possible. But now, I\'ve realized that there\'s infinite
ways to play any song, and so many ideas that can only be expressed
through music (or sound). Some ideas are ugly, some are beautiful, but
that\'s all part of art. I\'d like to share recordings etc. of me
playing music at some point, when I decide how!

As an aside, one small thing I learned recently was how to use music
notation software. So here\'s song I wrote about Tamiami Boulevard.
It\'s a main drag near my parents\' new home in Florida.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image16.png){width="3.8055555555555554in"
height="1.2986111111111112in"}

**Research**

I wrote an academic paper that\'s coming out in October! It\'s a review
paper on the [\"Economics of the Wildlife Trade and
Consumption\"](https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev-resource-111920-010503).
I\'ve been working on this paper part-time since the summer of 2020 and
pleased to say it\'s in its final version.

We didn\'t directly do empirical research but summarized the significant
discoveries thus far and reframed it for economists. I\'m grateful to
Gordon Rausser and David Zilberman, my co-authors. They are
well-established agricultural economists and guided me through the
process.

I\'m proud of the work. I now feel more knowledgable about the wildlife
trade than I ever thought I would be. The wildlife trade has numerous
causes (as you might read in the abstract) and results in threats to
endangered species, serious animal exploitation, and increased risks of
creating pandemics like COVID-19. I was happy to work on a project I
felt was important and neglected by economists and social scientists
generally.

Nonetheless, throughout the process I realized that academia is slow,
solitary work. As much as I enjoyed the topic, there were times were I
got de-motivated working at my computer so much, especially without any
peers to talk through ideas with. So I take it as a lesson for what kind
of work I want to do in the future.

**Taiwan**

I just moved to Taiwan! I\'m teaching at an English \"cram school\"
(after-school, supplementary education) called Schoolhouse Language
Center in [Kaohsiung City](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaohsiung)
(pronounced: GAO-shiong). My friend from Berkeley, Leon, is also with me
teaching at the same school.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image17.jpeg){width="1.4236111111111112in"
height="1.0694444444444444in"}

A lot people are thrown off to hear this update. People also sometimes
confuse Taiwan with Thailand, Vietnam, or China. It\'s understandable.
But Taiwan is a unique and remarkable island! Mandarin, English and
Taiwanese are the main languages here. It\'s an incredibly safe and
well-run democratic place. Public transport in the cities is extremely
efficient, and there\'s a high-speed rail that runs from Taipei to
Kaohsiung.

There\'s also a rich culture of vegetarian food because of Taiwan\'s
history of Buddhism. In general, I think there\'s a lot to learn and
experience, and this kind of move wouldn\'t be as easy when I\'m later
in my career.

A large part of my motivation for living in Taiwan is to immerse myself
in Mandarin. I studied Mandarin in middle/high school, but never got to
a decent level of fluency, and I\'ve never spent a substantial time in a
Mandarin-speaking country. I enjoy speaking, reading and writing Chinese
and think that it will be a useful language to know as China becomes a
more central global power.

Studying so far, it has been humbling. There\'s so much knowledge of
English vocabulary, grammar, and literature that I\'ve accumulated over
the years, and it\'s over-whelming to rebuild all that in Chinese. But
I\'m grateful to my Taiwanese/Chinese-American friends who have been
helping me speak with them. I wrote a couple stories in Chinese which
[you can read
here](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/diary-practice.html)
(shout-out to my editor!). I also may start a Instagram (ugh, I know) or
something recording my experience here\... but we\'ll see.

**Be well, joyful and healthy these next few months!**

at [August 01,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/2022-07-semiannual-update.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/2022-07-semiannual-update.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=482154269453403882&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=482154269453403882&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=482154269453403882&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=482154269453403882&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=482154269453403882&target=pinterest)

### [Diary Practice](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/diary-practice.html)  {#diary-practice .list-paragraph}

**七月五號**

今天我终于决定我必须要去外面跑步。在佛羅里達外面很热，所以直到今天以前，我一直打算去跑步但是我总是没出去。\
    我晚上八点出去。当时，太陽還沒下山
(我媽不讓我晚上出門,因為她擔心我遇到蛇)。我跑地（得）有一點慢,因為我幾天沒運動了.
但是,我跑步途中, 開始下一點雨.我想一想, 這樣下雨不錯! 但是,
在佛羅里達一下雨上了, 就下得很厲害. 今天也不例外. 突然,
我的衣服看起來像我剛才去游泳! 哇塞.\
    下雨的時候去外面跑步有一些好處. 比方說, 我回家以後, 我不需要洗澡!
哈哈我開玩笑. 真的好處是: 第一, 天氣比較涼快, 所以我跑得比較快!
第二個好處是水坑讓我赤腳跑步比較舒服. 而且, 我回家時看到一隻青蛙!\
    我跑步快結束的時候, 我看到雷電!. 我感到擔心.
我媽已經對蛇涉很感到可怕害怕/擔心, 她他對雷會怎麼想? 因此我趕緊
很快回家敲門. 我爸爸已經準備了一條毛巾歡迎我回家. 我叫我媽,
\"媽媽別著急!我安全得到家了!\" 但是她沒聽到我, 因為她在外面,
高興地欣賞著雨! 

**July 5th (translated via Google Translate)**

Today I finally decided that I have to go outside for a run. It\'s hot
outside in Florida, so until today I\'ve been going for a run but I
never get out.

I go out at eight o\'clock at night. At that time, the sun had not yet
set (my mother would not let me go out at night because she was worried
that I would encounter snakes). I\'m running a little slow because I
haven\'t exercised for a few days. However, during my run, it started to
rain a little. I think about it, it\'s raining good! Great. Today was no
exception. Suddenly, my clothes looked like I just went swimming! Wow.

Going outside for a run when it\'s raining has some benefits. For
example, when I get home, I don\'t need to take a shower! Haha I\'m
joking. The real benefits are: First, it\'s cooler, so I run faster!
Second The good thing is that the puddles make it more comfortable for
me to run barefoot. Also, I saw a frog when I got home!

Towards the end of my run, I saw thunder and lightning!. I was worried.
My mom was already terrified/worried about the snake, what would she
think of thunder? So I hurried home and knocked on the door. My dad A
towel had been prepared to welcome me home. I called my mom, \"Don\'t
worry mom! I got home safely!\" But she didn\'t hear me because she was
outside, happily admiring the rain!

 

**七月十三號**\
今天我想談談我跟乒乓球的關係. 聽說, 在大陸和台灣乒乓球是很熱門的運動.
(中國人每次都贏乒乓奧運冠軍!)\
    我在倫敦時, 我父母買一個玩意兒, 他可以從餐桌變型成乒乓求桌! 很棒,
很方便, 所以我當時很經常打乒乓球. 本來, 我每天想跟我父母打乒乓球. 但是,
我的乒乓球進步很多, 所以我們一玩我每次都贏.
我很感謝我父母讓我有這樣的乒乓球的起源故事. (其實,
因為真的乒乓球桌比較大一點, 到今天, 用真的桌子我有一點不習慣).\
    有一天, 我請了我們的鄰居的男孩子來我家. 他叫約翰, 比我大一歲.
從那天起, 我們開很好朋友. 但是更重要的是: 他的乒乓球很厲害. 各個周末,
我們每天會花至少兩小時打乒乓球. 在他學校, 約翰也打乒乓球,
但是他的同學們打得還可以. 所以我們兩個是互相最強大的對手.\
    我們就像陰和陽. 他是左撇子, 我是右撇子. 他用旋轉球, 我用扣殺.
他的乒乓球拍很凹凸不平, 我的很光滑. 就這樣, 我們從七歲到十六歲切磋
(十六歲之後, 我們兩個都很忙, 就沒有很多時間玩乒乓球).
每次我們的比賽都差不多平分了. 這樣讓我們每次繼續 \-- 下一次,
誰會呢？誰要贏了?\
    現在, 約翰住在英國, 我住在美國. 他還是我遇過最強大的乒乓球對手.
現在, 我只有一個夢想. 我希望我在台灣可以練習我的乒乓球.
之後我和約翰相遇, 我會贏的!

**July 13th (translated via Google Translate)**

Today I want to talk about my relationship with table tennis. I heard
that table tennis is a very popular sport in mainland China and Taiwan.
(Chinese people win the table tennis Olympic championship every time!).

When I was in London, my parents bought something that could transform
from a dining table to a ping pong table! It was great and convenient,
so I played ping pong a lot at the time. Originally, I wanted to play
ping pong with my parents every day. But , My table tennis has improved
a lot, so I win every time we play. I am very grateful to my parents for
letting me have such a table tennis origin story. (Actually, because the
real table tennis table is a bit bigger, to this day, I\'m not used to
using a real table).

One day, I invited our neighbor\'s boy to my house. His name is John,
and he is a year older than me. We have been good friends since that
day. But more importantly: his table tennis is great. Every weekend , we
will spend at least two hours a day playing table tennis. In his school,
John also plays table tennis, but his classmates can play well. So the
two of us are each other\'s strongest opponents.

We are like yin and yang. He\'s left-handed, I\'m right-handed. He spins
the ball, I smash. His ping pong bat is bumpy, mine is smooth. Years of
learning from each other (after the age of sixteen, both of us are so
busy that we don\'t have a lot of time to play table tennis). Every time
our game is almost evenly divided. So let\'s continue each time \-- next
time, who will win? Who is going to win?

Now, John lives in the UK and I live in the US. He is also the strongest
ping pong opponent I have ever met. Now, I only have one dream. I hope I
can practice my ping pong in Taiwan. After I met John, I will win!

at [August 01,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/diary-practice.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/08/diary-practice.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5739207913000557360&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5739207913000557360&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5739207913000557360&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5739207913000557360&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5739207913000557360&target=pinterest)

## Monday 11 July 2022 {#monday-11-july-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [How Rohan Plays Chess \-- A Career Framework](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/07/how-rohan-plays-chess-career-framework.html)  {#how-rohan-plays-chess----a-career-framework .list-paragraph}

Here's how I decide which moves to play in chess.

1.  Think of a handful of non-stupid moves to play

2.  Broadly look at how each move would advance my position

3.  Short-list to one or two moves I like based on:

    -   The opponent's position

    -   What I'm familiar with

    -   My gut feeling (this may be the deciding factor)

4.  Before you move, calculate a few moves ahead to make sure your
    > chosen move isn't a blunder.

    -   If it is, go back to your initial list or short-list and repeat
        > this step. 

    -   If it isn't, play the move.

There are some situations where this algorithm isn't necessary, and you
can choose a move much quicker:

-   You need to get out of a situation like check or prevent a checkmate
    > at all costs.

-   There's a major opportunity on the board that would be
    > game-changing. Taking a queen or rook, for example.

    -   Or controlling the center of the board. This has no immediate
        > material advantage, but actually provides benefits later on.

And here are some stylized facts from this framework:

-   Every chess game is different.

    -   No matter how sure you are of your strategy, your opponent's
        > moves have a huge impact on the game. So you can't feasibly
        > think 10-20 moves in advance.

    -   Advice has limited value. There may be some general principles,
        > but those are often overshadowed by the specifics of the game.
        > Advice can also be overshadowed by your style of playing chess
        > and what you feel comfortable doing.

-   The goal of the opening is to set up for a strong middle game. 

    -   Although there are some situations where you can checkmate in
        > two or four moves, those situations extremely rare.

    -   So don't get greedy. In the beginning, carefully develop your
        > pieces rather than gunning for a check-mate.

-   There is no one right opening. It depends on how you like to play.

    -   But know that your opening will, in an unpredictable way, affect
        > the rest of your game.

But what positions are worth striving for? How do you choose which
opponents to face? These questions are out of the scope of this post.

at [July 11,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/07/how-rohan-plays-chess-career-framework.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/07/how-rohan-plays-chess-career-framework.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6434165754901712402&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6434165754901712402&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6434165754901712402&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6434165754901712402&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6434165754901712402&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 12 April 2022 {#tuesday-12-april-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [Office Hours with Ben Goldberg](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/office-hours-with-ben-goldberg.html)  {#office-hours-with-ben-goldberg .list-paragraph}

*The tension between the narly and the beautiful in jazz. How do you
approach it?*

 

In music there is a constant struggle. Struggle to learn your
instrument, struggle to transcribe, struggle to keep up, struggle in
your ensemble. Struggle as a verb, an abstract action. Struggle for
expression, justice, freedom as a political idea. Musicians approach
this in a variety of ways \-- pop songs may smooth over the struggle,
except for moments when the singer\'s voice cracks and they say how they
really feel. Steve Lacy, the Bite is a constant struggle; it shows what
is behind the beautiful sounds that we sometimes hear in music. 

 

*What draws you to Steve Lacy?*

 

In the album with The Bite, Lacy was experimenting with \"extended
techniques\", ideas; hence his somewhat harsh, overbiting. In 1979 or
so, I was in Berkeley at Rasputin music carrying around my soprano
saxophone. The man at the till said, \"You play soprano sax? Steve Lacy
was just here! You have to listen to this.\" and I bought the album
Evidence (1962). The sound. It\'s incredible. It\'s so hard to do that
on soprano saxophone. For 10 or 15 years I worked to emulate Steve
Lacy\'s sound on the soprano; I transcribed the entire album. I wasn\'t
able to do it, but the process of struggle made me the player I am
today. I tried for years to play like Steve Lacy and now I play like Ben
Goldberg.

 

*How do you find your people?*

 

At your age, it\'s easy. I used to ask people if we could study
together. That\'s how one album of mine came together \-- it was because
I felt embarrassed at jam sessions not knowing all the charts, and I
told a guitarist I wanted to study all the songs we did know. It turned
into an album of funked up bebop songs that started with a central
purpose: to study. To study is to do more than \"play\" together; it\'s
to strive for betterment and progress on the instrument. The other tip
of finding your people is to be polite. 

 

And, you can study with other artists. What does it mean to create
something with a painter? A cartoonist? A poet? An actor? What piece of
music would come from looking at a painting? What painting would come
from a piece of music? Wisdom and exchange of ideas in art transcends
the particular craft.

 

*Others chimed in...*

 

What if you played music throughout your day. Someone Finn knew had a
30bpm metronome running for his entire day; and every time it beeped, he
would do something rhythmic or musical. The purpose was to internalize
the pulse. Music can be like that. Your every waking, and sleeping
moment can be musical if you make it. Why is there a dichotomy between
making music and living life normally?

 

*Recording is important.*

 

It\'s essential. Record as much as you possibly can. Every recording
carries a memory; a story; an accident of people getting together to
create music.

at [April 12,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/office-hours-with-ben-goldberg.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/office-hours-with-ben-goldberg.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=568315528671299097&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=568315528671299097&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=568315528671299097&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=568315528671299097&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=568315528671299097&target=pinterest)

## Monday 11 April 2022 {#monday-11-april-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [Welcome to Adulthood! Can I see your W2?](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/welcome-to-adulthood-can-i-see-your-w2.html)  {#welcome-to-adulthood-can-i-see-your-w2 .list-paragraph}

Taxes have always seemed like the most absurdly, adulty, agonizing thing
you can ever get up to on a Sunday afternoon. The kids are out playing
baseball; dogs are playing fetch at a ball game; but the adults are
stuck inside with a calculator, pen and pencil.

This year was my first time doing taxes. It feels like some kind of
twisted rite of passage: Hello, and welcome to adulthood! Can I see your
W2?

That\'s the first thing they ask for. W2. W2. W2. Who decided on this
name? Magically, everyone\'s meant to have one. For most jobs, it\'s
easy and handed in through the mail. But for my summer internship, for
example, the W2 was stored secretly on this magical portal that I
registered with my work email which was deactivated and I forgot the
password so I could access it so I emailed HR and they actually changed
their name to People Ops so the emails didn\'t get through and when I
finally *did* get through, they told me to call the portal help desk,
which was listed on the website the entire damn time. So then I get
talking to this nice woman named Julia \-- people on these phone lines
really appreciate it when you remember their name for the entire five
minutes you talk to them \-- and after she interrogated me about my
childhood pet name, she let me have my god damn W2.

So you get all your W2\'s in place \-- the stars are aligned \-- and
that\'s not the end of it. It would be nice \-- and it\'s not like this
\-- if filing taxes were like an ATM where you just slide in your
documents and bam, they work it all out for you. Not that inconcievable,
right? Well, that\'s not how it\'s done in America. So because it\'s a
free country they give you like 10 different tax filing services to
choose from, and I manage to choose the wrong one that\'s way to
complicated, and there\'s way too many boxes to add up\... until I call
my dad, an experienced, veteran adult, who tells me I should be using
the 1040-EZ instead of the 1040. What a slap in the face.

And that\'s when I discover TurboTax. I had heard rumors about this \--
mainly leftists including myself shitting on its creator, Intuit \-- but
I buckle down and go for TurboTax because the New York Times said I
should. And suddenly, TurboTax is there to save the day. There\'s like
confetti and pats on the back and when things get complicated, they tell
me, \"Don\'t worry. We\'re here to make it easy.\" and I suddenly
realize why Americans look for a strong father figure in government.
Daddy TurboTax is here for me with \"his\" calming voice and helpful
how-tos. Truly, what a guy. In the end, TurboTax spits out this form
that\'s incomprehensible to me \-- even though I *studied economics* and
*multivariable calculus* (I was right all along \-- they don\'t teach
you *anything* practical in high school) \-- and amazingly I\'m owed one
thousand extra dollars than expected because of the COVID stimulus. I\'d
like to thank my parents \-- Mom and Daddy TurboTax \-- for this
accomplishment.

I\'ve always had this sense when looking at complicated things from afar
that it\'s some kind of magic. Going through airport security was one of
them. Cooking chana masala. Signing a lease. And finally (but not
finally, because more of these will come up), doing taxes. But once
you\'ve done these things once or twice the magic wears away\... and the
importance of getting your macronutrients and paying the government
money (so we can wage war abroad?) becomes apparent.

Adulting at first glance looks awfully boring. But if you\'re willing to
sit through paperwork and logistical meetings and bureaucracies \-- a
somewhat big if \-- then the world is open to you as an adult. As long
as you have a floor to sleep on and food in your belly, you can
literally do anything you want.

at [April 11,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/welcome-to-adulthood-can-i-see-your-w2.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/04/welcome-to-adulthood-can-i-see-your-w2.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7658088245822610757&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7658088245822610757&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7658088245822610757&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7658088245822610757&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7658088245822610757&target=pinterest)

## Sunday 27 February 2022 {#sunday-27-february-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [Berkeley 10k Race](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/02/berkeley-10k-race.html)  {#berkeley-10k-race .list-paragraph}

Today I ran a 10k race! It was my first time racing this distance and I
exceeded expectations, running the Berkeley course in 44:54.

That was substantially faster than I had been expecting! In high school,
I only ran 5k races and at the start of the season, my times were
normally in the 22-23 minute area. 10k is double that, and recently I
haven\'t done a ton of running, so I was aiming for 50 minutes. So I did
pretty well! Around 45 minutes means I was running 7:14 miles
throughout, and I placed 62 out of 1290 people in the race. I should
give my tandem biking excursions with Dean more credit!

I had a great time and was lucky to have my friends David, Leon, Imon
and Leo to support me (even at 8:30am). They gave me a great oomph and
found several places throughout the course to come support. We met a few
others friends and saw so many athletic folks around Berkeley! I didn\'t
anticipate anyone joining to watch but was happy to see them around the
course. David knows how to motivate distance runners, having done
mountain biking himself, and put on quite the show. Leon thinks that the
best spectators should get medals (I fondly remember one supporter on
Southside who wore a batman suit). I also was roped into the race by
Tynan and Catherine \-- they sadly had a fall halfway through and
didn\'t get to the end :\'(.

The race started downtown, from the Deep South (Berkeley, CA) through
campus up till North Side and then finished around the starting line.
The last bit few kilometers were extremely hilly, and I saw the front
runners of the race steaming down the hills. Honestly, I was tired at
the 5k mark, but managed to keep up steam throughout the course. Leo ran
alongside me for some of it \-- we paced together on a track yesterday
and he told me that on the uphills I was runing a solid 50-minute pace.
The downhills were joyous.

With middle-long distance races, I really feel the true race starts in
the last half of the course. The runners have thinned out; people who
went hard at the start may begin to burn out. With the hills and sparse
mile markings, it became a real mental game. Though my thighs were
aching I managed to get through it all and run till the very end.

I love the 10k distance. It\'s long enough that you don\'t have to
sprint and short enough that it\'s not brutal. I felt so great after the
race would love to train for it more. Leo thinks I could run sub-40 \--
who knows! It feels good to be part of a large, semi-athletic community
and see improvements over time. You\'ll see me out there again!

at [February 27,
2022](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/02/berkeley-10k-race.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/02/berkeley-10k-race.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5143521613796864207&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5143521613796864207&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5143521613796864207&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5143521613796864207&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5143521613796864207&target=pinterest)

## Monday 31 January 2022 {#monday-31-january-2022 .list-paragraph}

### [The Killing Fields by Roland Joffe](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2022/01/the-killing-fields-by-roland-joffe.html)  {#the-killing-fields-by-roland-joffe .list-paragraph}

I truly enjoyed our first day of \"Hacks of the Silver Screen\", a
course with Mark Danner. The theme is journalists in film \-- how films
have shown journalists as heroes, scoundrels, or something in-between
throughout the years of American cinema.

 

Today, we watched *The Killing Fields*. It\'s a story about an American
journalist and his Cambodian \"fixie\" documenting the \"secret bombings
in Cambodia\" that led up to (and arguably caused) the Cambodian
genocide. I didn\'t know much about the Cambodian genocide before \-- or
even that the Americans were involved (not that I was surprised). The
film gave a gruesome and real depiction of the devastation caused by
American military decisions seemingly without regard for the Cambodian
people.

 

Sam Waterson plays Sydney Schanberg, the New York Times journalist who
was trying to convey the situation to the American public. Haing S. Ngor
is a fantastic Cambodian actor who plays Dith Pran, the \"fixie\"
(interpreter, translator, assistant, etc.) who saves Schanberg\'s life
many times over\... but Pran isn\'t able to be evacuated, and is held
captive by the dictatorial Khmer Rouge (the Maoist Communist Party that
conducted a military coup) until he escapes. To me, Pran is the hero of
the story \-- there\'s no way he could be paid enough for what he did.
With all his negotiation and smooth-talking he did the hard work that
got put under Schanberg\'s name at the awards (the film is by the way
based on a real story \-- Pran and Schanberg both were reporters at the
New York Times when the film came out). Of course, he is only able to
use his extraordinary talents because of the connections that Schanberg
had to the New York Times, to diplomats, etc. Ultimately, the vast
majority of Cambodians faced extreme oppression and violence during this
genocide and revolution. The \"love story\" that Schanberg wrote
dedicated to Pran falsely focuses on one man rather than the millions
that were affected by the \"secret bombings\" of the country. I imagine
Schanberg wrote about Pran as a way of atonement for unspeakable
violence that his country brought upon a formerly neutral nation.

 

There\'s a moment in the film where Nixon is on TV speaking confidently
about the Viet Nam / Cambodian wars and the success of the \"Nixon
Doctrine\". His method of supposedly pursuing peace through the
\"development of allies and friends\" is juxtaposed with the brutal,
senseless killings of civilians in Cambodia. Schanberg asks again and
again, \"how many dead? How many injured?\" but there is no answer
readily available. Nixon\'s method of expanding the Vietnam War to
Cambodia gave the Khmer Rouge the chance to gain power \-- and under
their rule, more than one million people were killed and buried in the
sites in Cambodia known as the Killing Fields.

 

Many such coups have been backed by the American military in South East
Asia and South America. It\'s hard to say that America and *Americans*
are not responsible for this. As our Professor mentioned in class, the
War on Terror in the Middle East have destabilized even more countries
leaving them vulnerable to undemocratic leadership. This has happened
just in my lifetime \-- I watched in heartbreak and powerlessness as the
US withdrew from Afghanistan and the Taliban overtook the country once
again. And so watching movies like the *Killing Field* carries a
particular weight since the US remains a barbaric, hegemonic power that
threatens countries around the globe.

 

Maybe it\'s this gut-wrenching sense of obligation that took Sydney
Schanberg to risk his life and document the bombing of Cambodia. Mixed
in with his desire for fame and fortune is Schanberg\'s urge to find the
truth; and to speak that truth to those who will listen; and to make
right the injustice his country has brought on others. May we find that
urge in ourselves as we think about foreign policy.

## Wednesday 15 December 2021

### [Ready Player One by Ernest Cline](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/12/ready-player-one-by-ernest-cline.html)  {#ready-player-one-by-ernest-cline .list-paragraph}

*Ready Player One* deals with a frightening and unfortunately familiar
dystopia. In the year 2045, the world has gone through crisis after
crisis of wars, poverty, and climate catostrophe. Meanwhile, virtual
reality has reached a whole new level. Nearly everyone on the planet is
plugged into the OASIS, a near-perfect simulation that has millions of
planets, public schools, and institutions acting through completely
anonymous avatars. Created by James Halliday, an unabashed 80s geek, the
OASIS has come to dominate most people\'s reality. One day, Halliday
dies*,* and leaves his entire fortune to the person who can solve his
secret \"easter egg\" hidden in the game.

I\'ll be honest: I read this book in only two days. The sci-fi,
fantastical world Ernest Cline builds is gripping, and so too is Wade
Watts\' (the protagonist) hunt for Halliday\'s egg. The obsession I had
with the book probably mimics Cline\'s old obsessions with games ranging
from Dungeons and Dragons in his youth to World of Warcraft later in his
life.

The book is geeky in a endearing but ignorant way. The influential
characters of *Ready Player One* are mostly nerdy, white men from
mid-west America that flex their 80s pop culture references on every
damn page. And why shouldn\'t they? Of course knowing the lines from
*Monty Python and the Holy Grail* should determine the fate of half a
trillion dollars. But really, that\'s every nerd\'s dream \-- for skills
otherwise useless to society to make you a billionaire in a month. Think
crypto, hedge funds, computer science.

Like it or not, this might be the world we\'re headed towards. My one
memorable experience in virtual reality (VR) was a rollercoaster demo in
an airport in Seoul, complete with a vibrating chair that shook you back
and forth. Why sit in line for hours at Disneyland when you can the next
best thing right in your living room? I was shockingly captivated. Our
mobile phones, laptops, TVs have become increasingly immersive and the
\"real\" world increasingly repungant. Some folks in the tech space seem
to have missed the anti-corporatist messages of the book, like [dear
Mark
Zuckerberg](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/video/2021/oct/28/meta-mark-zuckerberg-announces-facebooks-new-name-video)
who envisions his re-branded company building \"a digital world built
over our own, comprising virtual reality headsets and augmented
reality\". 

Time and time again, we\'re asked to consider in the book: is this just
a video game? At times I think that the joys of virtual reality \--
however great \-- can\'t be meaningful because, well, they\'re not
*real*. But as I went through the book I thought harder about that. Most
of our institutions in America can be analogized to some kind of virtual
reality. Our education system. The corporate ladder. Online shopping.
These are spaces where arbitrary definitions of success \-- like acing
the SAT \-- can yield massive material benefits to you personally. Now
with COVID, these virtual realities have become even more commonplace.
It\'s a fantastic, bizarre thing that you can conduct your entire life
through a monitor and keyboard (heck, if we\'re doing that already, why
not make it as enjoyable as OASIS?). In America, a \"service-oriented\"
economy, one is actually *discouraged* from pursuing activities like
gardening, construction, or carpentry (unless you\'re some sort of
hippie, or from Colorado). Everyone knows that *real* (a word I\'ve come
to question) opportunity lies in the virtual world\*. 

As I read the book, I was reminded of Sufism, or mystical Islam. The way
the doctrine was explained to me is that everything about ourselves \--
what we see, do, how we act \-- is an illusion. Deep down within us is
our inner selves in the \"Absolute Reality\". Once we know our inner
selves, the physical world becomes immaterial. True Sufis have a vastly
different perspective on our place on this planet.

Now, I\'m not sure about all that. I do know that for all its geekiness
and sci-fi tropes, *Ready Player One* made me think a little harder
about what is \"real\" and what\'s worth living for. I recommend the
read.

\* Karl Marx himself described the difference between the \"real bodily
form\" of money and its \"abstract exchange value\". Money can be
converted universally exactly because it is not tied down to a
particular commodity. OASIS currency, as it happens in the book, becomes
more stable than coins produced by a government.

at [December 15,
2021](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/12/ready-player-one-by-ernest-cline.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/12/ready-player-one-by-ernest-cline.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9090370379340039184&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9090370379340039184&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9090370379340039184&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9090370379340039184&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9090370379340039184&target=pinterest)

## Saturday 8 May 2021 {#saturday-8-may-2021 .list-paragraph}

### [A Promised Land by Barack Obama](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/05/a-promised-land-by-barack-obama.html)  {#a-promised-land-by-barack-obama .list-paragraph}

When I was in third grade, I remember writing to President Barack Obama
as a writing assignment. The letter lies in my portfolio \-- evidently
it never reached the White House. I told him that, \"I\'m black just
like you and that I\'m proud that you are President.\"

I was a little confused about my ethnicity, but the point holds. Obama
becoming the first Person of Color to hold the Office of the President
was a big deal. I was young then, so it was hard for me to understand
the significance of the moment. Now, I look back and wish we had more
politicians as charming, intelligent, and dedicated as Obama was (not to
discredit Donald Trump or Joe Biden).

Of course as I\'ve come to Berkeley I\'ve heard a number of criticisms
of Obama. For all his talk about police reform or civil rights, what did
he really do for Black justice? What\'s with his excessive drone strikes
or detention of child migrants at the US-Mexico border? Obama\'s
campaign was full of hope, unity, and courage, and to some his election
signaled changing tides in America. But arguably, despite being of a
different demographic, his presidency was more of what came before.

Having read his autobiography, I can tell that Obama regrets those
short-comings too. Just as much as he emphasizes his ideals and the
values he campaigned on, he also discusses the limitations of being
President and the numerous influences on him. Being elected amid the
Financial Crisis, Obama explains his choice of somewhat conservative
economists in his cabinet; of Joe Biden, an experienced Senator, as his
Vice President; how to best frame his platform (\"spreading the wealth
around\", David Axelrod reminds us, reminds Americans of communism \-- a
big no) and how to tactfully avoid controversial topics of race (during
the Presidential race, Obama had to cut ties with Reverend Jerimiah
Wright because of his flagrant anti-White Supremacy preaching). In his
book, he explains what it\'s like to approach Vladimir Putin in
conversation, negotiate with military generals, and deal with the
endless possibility of terrorism on a day-to-day basis.

When I read A Promised Land I felt the weight of the President\'s
decisions\... and I also felt the limitations of the Office. For
instance, healthcare was a topic that Obama\'s advisors told him not to
touch, simply because it would upset Pharmaceutical companies (who
funded Democrats as well as Republicans) and be confusing to average
Americans who already have good healthcare. They went through with
Obamacare anyways, but not without calling in favors, pulling \"behind
the door deals\", and watering down the Affordable Care Act until it
could pass the Congress and the Senate. In describing these
circumstances, Obama is somewhat critical of Republicans \-- whose best
interests are to block everything the Democrats do, no matter of the
good that may come \-- and leftist activists too, who blame the
President for not going far enough.

The reality of being a politician is frustrating, and even as President
you are driven by systems of power beyond your control. I was moved by
one paragraph in particular where Obama explains his response to the
2010 oil spills caused by British Petroleum. After months of BP not
being able to stop the leak, it had become a large-scale crisis
affecting wildlife and humans in the Gulf coast \-- the worst possible
situation. The Federal government was starting to take blame for the
crisis. Activists were complaining of their negligence; that despite the
might of the largest US agencies, the oil leak inflicted continuous
damage upon the Earth. Despite admitting fault publicly, Obama writes
his silenced frustrations (page 571): \"The only way to truly guarantee
that we didn\'t have another catastrophic oil spill in the future was to
stop drilling entirely; but that wasn\'t going to happen because at the
end of the day, we Americans loved our cheap gas and big cars more than
we cared about the environment, except when a complete disaster was
staring at us in the face; and the absence of such a disaster, the media
rarely covered efforts to shift America off fossil fuels or pass climate
legislation, since actually educating the public on long-term energy
policy would be boring and bad for ratings; and the one thing I could be
certain of was that for all the outrage being expressed at the moment
about the wetlands and the sea turtles and the pelicans, what the
majority of us were really interested in was having the problem go away;
for me to clean up yet another mess decades in the making with some
quick and easy fix so we could all go back to our carbon spewing, energy
wasting ways without having to feel guilty about it.\"

Sheesh! I was shook, reading that. It was a moment of pessimism, about
the inevitability of human selfishness. But his warnings carry sway with
the Coronavirus (now that the vaccine is widespread, who\'s talking
about the root cause of the problem anymore?), or climate change (we
really don\'t want to give up our gas-guzzling cars) or animal
agriculture (slaughter-house footage is traumatic, but most of the time
it\'s out of sight, out of mind). Even the President of the United
States, with his platform built on \"yes we can!\", reminds us that the
world sucks sometimes. It\'s difficult to make change, and sometimes
people are too anxious to see beyond themselves.

At the end of the day, the President operates in a system, just like the
rest of us. We can\'t expect one man to save America \-- not if we\'re
not doing the leg-work of shifting the hearts and minds of American
people. Being a politician is, at its core, about making compromises and
working with people whom you detest. Even those in the Democratic party
are bound by their conservative constituents, or by campaign donations
from Big Business. Sometimes, doing the right thing is political
suicide. Though it may not be the President\'s job, there is still ample
space to spread ideas about what ought to be. Artists, writers,
activists and religious figures share values, inspire debate and bring
new ideas to the table. At some point, those ideas are brought to the
ugly floor of Congress and watered down and trampled on \-- but at least
they were there to start with. 

This realization gives me a new perspective on how to judge politicians
and people in general. For all the idealism someone might have, when
they\'re put in a political bind or have to keep their job for their
families, their values may be compromised. Politicians may talk the talk
but we can\'t expect them to walk the walk because frankly, that
doesn\'t poll well. Sometimes it\'s necessary to compromise something
you believe for the sake of moving forward in the messy world.

I highly recommend Obama\'s autobiography. For aspiring politicians, and
anyone who wants to be part of the ecology of change. It\'s a reminder
that being President is just another job.

at [May 08,
2021](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/05/a-promised-land-by-barack-obama.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/05/a-promised-land-by-barack-obama.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6169765906164055530&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6169765906164055530&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6169765906164055530&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6169765906164055530&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6169765906164055530&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 14 April 2021 {#wednesday-14-april-2021 .list-paragraph}

### [Ingrid Newkirk, head honcho of PETA](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/04/ingrid-newkirk-head-honcho-of-peta.html)  {#ingrid-newkirk-head-honcho-of-peta .list-paragraph}

Well, it\'s not everyday you chat with Ingrid Newkirk, head honcho of
PETA.

Newkirk is somewhat of a legend in the animal rights movement. She
started activism in the US in 1972 (three years before the publication
of *Animal Liberation*) working in Washington DC\'s dog adoption
program, and founded PETA in 1980. She was one of the first
abolitionists in America, going beyond \"humane\" treatment of animals
and advocating an end to slaughter and commodification. Since 1980 PETA
has grown to prominence, and, honestly, infamy. Most probably see them
as animal loving buffoons, characterized by their stunts and
inflammatory public statements about veganism.

I do think we have to give them credit. PETA\'s first laboratory
investigation in 1981 found horrendous conditions of macaques in Silver
Spring, Maryland; and the exposure almost directly led to the 1985
amendment on the Animal Welfare Act, protecting animals from excessive
abuse in research. The prominence of \"cruelty-free\" labeling on
cosmetics (like shampoos), though problematically wording, is largely
there because of the public pressure PETA put on select companies,
stigmatizing animal testing for unnecessary use.

At the same time, I think PETA has made mistakes in their struggle for
animal liberation. Some have called the promotion of \"cruelty-free\"
chocolate disingenuous, ignoring the labor struggles of cocoa production
facilities in the Global South. Few can forget PETA\'s 2008 \"Got
autism\" ad, which drew a tenuous link between dairy consumption and
autism. There are numerous counts of objectification, fat-shaming of
women\'s bodies, which I won\'t detail here. These instances make
working with PETA\... complicated. PETA has enough funding to run a
super-bowl ad (and they have), higher over two hundred staffers, and
have the most support for student activists out of other animal rights
organizations. I want to build bridges and appreciate PETA\'s support,
but how can I when they have made ads comparing mothers in the dairy
industry to those at the US-Mexico border?

\"That was pretty shocking in retrospect,\" said Newkirk about the. We
spoke only through audio, but I could feel her head shaking. I was
surprised \-- everything I had heard from this fervent leader of PETA
suggested she was obstinate in her beliefs. But despite everything \--
we humble students had gotten on the phone with her. And she was
listening.

Our conversation centered on an internal controversy at PETA about
Martin Luther King Day. An email thread was leaked online that featured
staffers at PETA \-- many of whom were people of color \-- voicing
concerns about PETA protesting for animals on this day, particularly
without acknowledging racial justice. As I mentioned to Newkirk, this
particular debate was not the crux of our concern. More pressing was the
way that it was dealt with: Ingrid Newkirk, the director of PETA,
shutting down voices of color in her own organization. It\'s
unempowering for activists and harmful for the animal rights movement
that *needs* to have pluralistic support to achieve success. We also
brought up the way that PETA\'s campaigns appropriating other movements
are harmful in that same way \-- alienating activists for social justice
in other areas.

Despite all the criticisms, we spoke to Newkirk as fellow animal
liberationists. Peers in the struggle for animal rights, for a world
free of suffering and domination of non-human creatures. I do have
massive respect for Newkirk for shaping the American animal rights
movement \-- in fact, even more so after our conversation. In her memo
to us after, she wrote, \"I take on-board your comments about some of
the gimmicks, if you will, we have used in the past, probably more out
of desperation to get the AR message heard than anything. I\'m sure we
will inevitably, inadvertently misstep again, but it won\'t be for want
of trying not to.\"

I believe her. We all want PETA to be successful, and we all want
students \-- including students of color \-- to be empowered in the
movement. The animal rights movement is a small scene, and there\'s
nothing to be gained from in-fighting. I know where she\'s coming from,
and I know how hard and lonely it is advocating for animal liberation.
By nature of existing in the burbling culture of Berkeley, I am always
learning about the struggles of humans even in the United States \-- but
not everyone is. Whether it\'s police brutality, the threat of
deportation, or the day-to-day struggle of homelessness, our world is
full of systemic evils that people are working hard to address. I
believe if we unite with others against common oppressor, change can be
made for us all.

at [April 14,
2021](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/04/ingrid-newkirk-head-honcho-of-peta.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/04/ingrid-newkirk-head-honcho-of-peta.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5088204817588930294&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5088204817588930294&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5088204817588930294&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5088204817588930294&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5088204817588930294&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 17 February 2021 {#wednesday-17-february-2021 .list-paragraph}

### [Pharmakon: Remedy and poison](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/02/pharmakon-remedy-and-poison.html)  {#pharmakon-remedy-and-poison .list-paragraph}

I just learned about an interesting concept: \"pharmakon.\" The way I
was taught it, this Greek word describes something that is both a
medicine *and* a poison at the same time.

How is this possible? Well, as the German physician and philosopher
Paracelsus says, \"everything is a poison. The difference between a
poison and a remedy depends on the dose.\" A notable example is Botox, a
\"therapy\" that uses very mild doses of botulinum toxin to paralyze
skin cells in one\'s face and prevent wrinkling. It\'s okay, though a
little cringe-worthy, in small doses\... but just \~2 nano-grams of
botulinum toxin per kilogram of bodyweight is a lethal dose \-- our
system simply shuts down once exposed.

*Pharmakon* is also a term in philosophy, and for good reason. I can
think of countless things that are both \"remedies\" for society, but
also a potential source of toxicity. Consider: democracy prevents
dictators from ruling forever, but also allowed the rise of populism and
election of Donald Trump. Private pharmaceutical companies developed the
Coronavirus vaccine extraordinarily quickly, but won\'t give fair prices
to the Global South. Our phones allow unbelievable amounts of
communication with people all around the world, but also can be
addictive and fuel loneliness in society.

It\'s easy to deal with good and evil, but much harder to deal with
*pharmakon*. When new technologies come up, like wearable computers or
immersive video games, we have to watch out for the pitfalls and
toxicity of it, even while recognizing the convenience and joy it may
bring. That\'s really difficult sometimes, but necessary for living in
this complicated world.

at [February 17,
2021](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/02/pharmakon-remedy-and-poison.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/02/pharmakon-remedy-and-poison.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9122067770400248665&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9122067770400248665&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9122067770400248665&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9122067770400248665&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=9122067770400248665&target=pinterest)

## Monday 4 January 2021 {#monday-4-january-2021 .list-paragraph}

### [Ode to Buttercup](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/01/ode-to-buttercup.html)  {#ode-to-buttercup .list-paragraph}

*Strong-willed. Determined.*

She carried these things around the house in her every step. Up the
stairs, down the stairs, facing off against her mirrored self on the
wall. Wandering into the garden, ignoring the gawking chickens, who were
enamored by her, as we all are. She searched for those spots where no
others dared to go, filling the darkest corners with light.

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image18.jpeg){width="1.6666666666666667in"
height="2.2222222222222223in"}

*Graceful. Care-free. Friendly.*

The pitter-patter of her footsteps is heard around the house. *Who\'s
there?* I ask, but she does not wait for permission to walk in. When
lucky, she jumps onto my bed and stares thoughtfully out of the window.
It\'s a big world out there. We bought some ringing toys for her to play
with, and she claws at them playfully yet with certainty: *These are
mine.*

She loves being around people, but not *too* close \-- certainly not at
first. Her carer tells me it comes from the fact that she was raised by
dogs. She and her siblings were orphaned and then given to a momma dog
who had still-born pups. Even after all these years she hasn\'t lost her
adaptability and affectionate nature.

*Grass-loving. Charismatic.*

She loves plants. She\'ll eat anything she can get her paws on, so my
succulent is moved to a safe place where she can\'t see. When she finds
cat-nip (more accurately, non-verbally influences others to produce it
for her), she eats it like Halloween candy: as fast as she possibly can,
and with no regard for her health or savings. But we couldn\'t take the
grass away from her \-- that would crush her heart, and by extension,
ours. She knows this. When she wants more she purrs at the door and
looks up to the plants, and we do our best.

*Boogers. Dignified.*

Sometimes she has boogers on her nose. Housecats sometimes have this,
especially when they are old and in a new environment, like she is. For
a couple days I was tasked with wiping the boogers off her face. She was
too dignified to let me, though, and pretended they weren\'t there, even
if it meant sniffling all day.

*Seventeen.*

She is seventeen years old. That\'s 84 in [cat
years](https://www.almanac.com/cat-age-chart-cat-years-human-years). She
has a tumor on her stomach \-- it\'s a hard lump on her belly, but I try
not to look because it reminds me.

After a few weeks with living with us, she loses her appetite. She
withdraws to her room \-- too tired for this house, too old for us. I
know this, and I want the best for her, but all the same I don\'t want
her to leave. We still keep cap-nip, just in case she wants some when
she\'s up there. I hope she\'ll meet her adopted-mom, her cat-mom, and
everyone else who loved her as much as she loved life.

*Buttercup.*

![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image19.jpeg){width="2.2222222222222223in"
height="1.6666666666666667in"}

*\
 - Rohan Prasad, Jan 4th, 2020.*

at [January 04,
2021](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/01/ode-to-buttercup.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2021/01/ode-to-buttercup.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3077316879240472446&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3077316879240472446&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3077316879240472446&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3077316879240472446&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3077316879240472446&target=pinterest)

## Monday 28 December 2020 {#monday-28-december-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Cyborgs at the Harkness Table](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/12/cyborgs-at-harkness-table.html)  {#cyborgs-at-the-harkness-table .list-paragraph}

Here\'s a thought: Are English majors Cyborgs when they sit around a
discussion table?

Well, what *is* a Cyborg? The word itself is a portmaneau of
*cyber*netic and *org*anism \-- a rough definition is \"a person who is
part machine, a robot who is part organic.\"

How would this relate to the Harkness Table? When we sit in a book club
or English seminar, most people have their books open and mouths shut,
save for a few rambling folk. The proud student flips through their book
to cite page numbers, give exact quotes, and search for context when
others are reading or analyzing.

When we look at this a certain way, it becomes awfully cybernetic! After
all, these people haven\'t *memorized* the book, yet its physical
existence allows students to recall quotes, plot-points, and metaphors
after a bit of looking up. It may not seem so impressive, but this is a
skill we (or at least some of us) build throughout high school so that
we can have lovely, educated discussion. For the experienced reader, the
book becomes an extension of the mind.

On the other hand, you might consider the book a *tool*, whose use
doesn\'t necessarily make us cybernetic. It\'s not *thinking* for us \--
it\'s just storing information. I mean, the use of pencils doesn\'t
*scream* Cyborg to me, nor does using flint and steel to light a fire.

But when does that boundary stop? Is Google (or DuckDuckGo) also just a
tool, since it only retrieves information? But then, what happens when
you open Google Maps and it calculates an optimum route for you \-- is
it still just a storage device? That, along with many other examples
(like Alexa, a FitBit, or even Elon Musk\'s Neuralink) make it more and
more seamless to connect with new technologies (t\'s not unlike English
class, when teenagers stealthily bring their phones out underneath the
Harkness table!). In the language of computer science, the *bandwidth*
of information transfer is increasing so that we can connect with
computers faster than ever.

A lot of this is rather scary. Being Cyborgs with great works of
literature is fine \-- I suppose \-- but it beings nefarious when we
think of Facebook, or Netflix, or Candycrush. But like it or not, these
advances don\'t seem to be going away, and in fact people are getting
more and more excited about them!

Off the top of my mind I try to remember to things when dealing with our
increasingly Cyborked world: literacy and autonomy. The literacy
movement \-- giving the gift of reading to everyone \-- is a noble one,
and frankly essential for a democratic society. Our world is *built* on
reading, from court rulings to stop signs, and if only a few could
actually do it we would revert to a feudal society. The same logic goes
for technological literacy, like being able to write and read computer
code. In addition, I\'d say we need autonomy \-- the ability to separate
ourselves from our technological enhancements. For books, this is easy
\-- it\'s not hard to tell your teenager to put a book down. But when
there\'s Facebook and Netflix and Candycrush on a kid\'s iPhone,
they\'re are sucked in and are loathe to put away this \"tool\", which
gives it power over us. Literacy alone doesn\'t cut it. We need space
away from devices so that we have a better understanding of ourselves,
don\'t get addicted to them, and of course have a bit of privacy.

*How do you stop from becoming a Cyborg? Or is it something you
whole-heartedly embrace? Leave a comment and tell me your thoughts!*

at [December 28,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/12/cyborgs-at-harkness-table.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/12/cyborgs-at-harkness-table.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5284615085419897544&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5284615085419897544&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5284615085419897544&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5284615085419897544&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5284615085419897544&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal),
[social change](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/social change),
[technology](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/technology)

## Tuesday 8 December 2020 {#tuesday-8-december-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [7 Reflections on COVID](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/12/7-reflections-on-covid.html)  {#reflections-on-covid .list-paragraph}

Like Episode 7 of Star Wars, no one saw the third wave of Coronavirus
coming. At least, I sure didn\'t. This time, our suffering has less to
do with the strength of the virus and more to do with poor governance in
supposedly advanced countries. It\'s rather shameful, really, but either
way, the best thing we can do is sit at home and wait.

Anyways, I was walking to the test site and had some meandering thoughts
that even if not too intelligent, stand as a record of this period in
history:

1.  First I realized that interestingly, in these times we are guilty
    > until proven innocent. Laws and social norms are really the same
    > thing (to different extents) but under the Coronavirus judicial
    > system, the rules are severe. Even before someone enters your
    > house, we assume they have COVID (well, unless there\'s biological
    > evidence otherwise!). Guilty until proven innocent.

2.  Our friends at the CDC have used the famous number, R-naught (as did
    > Boris Johnson when he issued his first plan for recovery), but
    > maybe that\'s misleading. Another way to think about the spread of
    > COVID is through networks. If you\'re 3 degrees of separation from
    > someone who tested (ie. your father\'s sister\'s friend), what\'s
    > the chance that you will, too? How many days will it take? The
    > temporal aspect to networks isn\'t something we think about too
    > often.

3.  Put away your phone! I mean, I should, at least. We get so little
    > human contact these days, so we may as well soak it in while
    > we\'re out.

4.  Does COVID change our quality of life? I mean for those still with
    > food, water, and shelter, but stuck in our homes all day. How
    > different is staring at a computer screen to going to a lecture
    > and staring at a podium? Some would say that you can be happy
    > anywhere, no matter the circumstances, if you have peace of mind.
    > At the same time, lacking basic needs does make us less happy, and
    > we don\'t see new people very often these days. But is Zoom a
    > substitute for that?

5.  COVID will probably be the next 9/11. We\'ll all remember where we
    > were during the initial quarantine, though the stories to tell
    > won\'t be *that* exciting. I imagine there\'ll come some time when
    > people have forgotten about COVID-19 \-- perhaps in 20, 30, or 50
    > years \-- and us geezers will think, \"ya\'ll are too young to
    > remember the 2020 pandemic.\"

6.  I read about some protesters in Brazil marching for the climate and
    > because their government had mishandled the virus. Now, I sure
    > wish Americans and Brits had the guts to do that. But it\'s hard
    > to voice political disagreement when there\'s a virus. It\'s a
    > unique state of emergency where the very act of gathering
    > (normally protected via. Freedom of Speech) is pretty taboo. Also,
    > with something like a pandemic (and many other emergencies) the
    > knowledge / expertise is concentrated in the hands of
    > \"professionals\", who normally don\'t go about getting arrested
    > for political causes. So people protesting must first educate
    > themselves on the science of the issue, then understand the
    > politics of the situation, *then* take action. That\'s a high bar!

7.  As Jason Hickel commented in a recent Tweet (as did Kim Stanley
    > Robinson in his podcast with Ezra Klein), the Coronavirus is a
    > glimpse into capitalism\'s response to a crisis. In other words,
    > pathetic. Both the coronavirus and the climate crisis are
    > transnational, demand a socialized economy, and though devastating
    > act through slow violence. We need to prepare ourselves for the
    > next crisis after COVID, and the work begins now.

at [December 08,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/12/7-reflections-on-covid.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/12/7-reflections-on-covid.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4258783267890892464&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4258783267890892464&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4258783267890892464&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4258783267890892464&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=4258783267890892464&target=pinterest)

## Thursday 8 October 2020 {#thursday-8-october-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Do it yourself](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/10/do-it-yourself.html)  {#do-it-yourself .list-paragraph}

In the fourth grade I made my own Halloween costume: a garbage bag. That
was how some saw it, at least. I\'m not sure what I had in my head \--
perhaps a paper warrior, or a recycling king? Either way, to make it I
cut out a brown lunch bag as a helmet, taped an array of A4 sheets on my
back, and held a long cardboard roll as a staff to parade around the
streets of St. John\'s Wood.

This is an (albeit disappointing) example of what a Do It Yourself (DIY)
attitude can produce. Others include [DIY
Soylent](https://www.completefoods.co/), the [GNU
Linux](https://www.gnu.org/) operating system, and Mahatma Gandhi\'s
[*khadi*](https://www.mkgandhi.org/swadeshi_khadi/whatiskhadi.htm). In
short, works of utmost beauty.

You may laugh \-- because we all know that isn\'t quite true. Linux
isn\'t quite as smooth as Mac OS, and any Indian liberationist would
acknowledge Gandhi could\'ve been better dressed. The point of DIY,
however, isn\'t perfection. It\'s the autonomy, mastery, and ownership
you have over the final product. When I made that Halloween costume in
fourth grade, people laughed at me, and it had some flaws. But it was
mine, and no one could take that away\*.

Fortunately this ethic is not just another one of my crack-pot ideas.
The feelings brewing in my pre-adolescent youth have been codified in
the *Repair Manifesto*, which I recently saw on my landlord\'s shed.
\"We hold these truths to be self-evident,\" it begins. \"If you can\'t
fix it, you don\'t own it.\"

 ![](vertopal_79faa9fe8c3540e3909e54d23365b6dd/media/image20.jpeg "iFixit's self-repair manifesto"){width="2.5902777777777777in"
height="3.111111111111111in"}

I confess this *Manifesto* mentions many things I was not completely
conscious of when I assembled my \"garbage bag\" costume. When we repair
any type of gadget or doohickey, the benefit for the earth is
three-fold: you don\'t throw out the gadget you have, you save on the
materials needed to create another gadget, and you don\'t produce
wasteful by-products created through the gadget\'s supply chain. Of
course, over time you also save money (I\'ve found this to be true after
I started cutting my own hair), you gain independence from industries,
and you learn some engineering skills you can easily practice in the
future.

By now, you\'re probably sold, so let me take this a little further.
What if the *Do It Yourself* attitude was carried through everything:
our homes, our streets, our politics. If you don\'t like what your local
Mayor or Councilmember is doing, *do it yourself!* If you don\'t like
how your trash is being taken out, *do it yourself!* If you don\'t like
how the dishes are being done, *do it yourself!*

Yes, this mantra asks a lot of you. But there\'s a lot to fix in this
day and age \-- and we need *you* to take up the wrench and make things
better.

\* My DIY ethic for Halloween costumes \-- you may be pleased to know
\-- has continued past lower school. In tenth grade I dressed up as my
physics teacher and won the \"scariest costume prize\" in the high
school; in freshmen year of college I did a similar impersonation of my
math professor (for that, no prize was received except a confused
expression on his face.)

at [October 08,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/10/do-it-yourself.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/10/do-it-yourself.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7794753378311673498&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7794753378311673498&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7794753378311673498&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7794753378311673498&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7794753378311673498&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 30 September 2020 {#wednesday-30-september-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [A river](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/a-river.html)  {#a-river .list-paragraph}

It\'s been a long time since I wrote a blog post. About a month, one
might say. Though I can pin that answer down via the Gregorian calendar,
I\'m not so sure. Is time really like a ruler, where you can measure it
from end to end?

Maybe time grows like a tree, where every moment stretches as the tree
grows older and older. Or maybe time flows like a river, speeding down
some stretches and slowing at the curves and bends. Somehow this rings
more true, to me. During this time \-- this day, this month, this year
\-- time flows in a remarkable way. The pandemic makes things feel
strange, like time has warbles and hiccups along it\'s long arrow.
Sometimes I don\'t believe I\'m in this time, or that looking back I was
in the time of the past.

I was thinking of doing \"polyphasic sleeping\", which is a method where
you sleep very little at night and take frequent naps during the day.
Naps energize you dramatically and *time-*efficiently, so overall you
spend less time sleeping and more time doing other things. I told this
to some people in a moment of excitement \-- imagine all the time I was
going to save! As if time were like gold coins that you can spend and
save and waste. If time is like a river then I don\'t know if that all
makes sense. Just as water flows down the river, water falls from the
sky and replenishes the reserves in the mountain. You can\'t do that
with gold coins.

It\'s been a long time since I wrote a blog post. That much I suppose is
true.

at [September 30,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/a-river.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/a-river.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7838888044276314659&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7838888044276314659&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7838888044276314659&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7838888044276314659&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7838888044276314659&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal)

## Monday 28 September 2020 {#monday-28-september-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [An ICE-y View of the Future](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/an-ice-y-view-of-future.html)  {#an-ice-y-view-of-the-future .list-paragraph}

 *This essay was written for a class called* Human Contexts and Ethics
of Data*. Hope you enjoy.*

 

"About 50 students and community members met at 12 pm to march against
UC Berkeley's ties with Silicon Valley software giant Palantir\..."[^1]
wrote the *Daily Californian* in September, 2019. The protesters opposed
Palantir's links with the University of California through the Corporate
Access Program (CAP), a way for corporations to become "EECS Industrial
Partners"[^2] and have special access to recruit budding computer
scientists studying at Berkeley.

As the students protested, they chanted phrases like "Up up liberation,
down down with deportation." and "Carol Christ, you know it's true, the
crimes of ICE depend on you." These statements reference Palantir's
connections to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency,
which uses Palantir's tools to access and surveil people's data in real
time to hound undocumented immigrants. Palantir's tools are a hallmark
of the post-9/11, digital age -- an example of big data giving
unprecedented power to the US surveillance state.

This essay will focus on the [socio-technical imaginaries]{.underline}
espoused by the students compared to that of Berkeley's EECS department.
A socio-technical is defined as a way "with which individuals and
collectives imagine and build their desired futures."[^3] For this
specific case, this paper will describe the EECS department's vision of
providing an impartial *platform* for private companies, compared to the
students' vision of hosting only moral and ethical institutions. Such
visions get to the heart of data and society: To what ends is data
science used -- and when something goes wrong, who should speak against
it?

First, one can examine the supposedly neutral role that Palantir and
Berkeley play in ICE's doings. Palantir has largely abstained from moral
responsibility for ICE's immigrant abuse. They have claimed that though
they provide the tools, they are not responsibles for the actions of the
clients or the way that they are used. The EECS department, too, refused
any moral responsibility in connecting with Palantir. The professors
said that the University is not endorsing ICE, but merely providing a
*platform* for free engagement. The *Daily California* quotes, "CAP
should be a platform in which students and employees can freely
interact." From this perspective, the obligation to oppose wrong-doing
falls on Berkeley *students* rather than the EECS department, absolving
the University of responsibility.

However one considers the CAP program, the professors' statements ignore
a deeper, incestual bonding between Big Tech and academia. Rodrigo
Ochigame, in an *Intercept* article called *The Invention of 'Ethical
AI',* describes how the academic world endorses and legitimizes the
ethics-washing of Big Tech[^4]. More and more activists have been
opposing practices of the industry (with movements like #NoTechForIce or
#Data4BlackLives), and in response the Tech Industry has had a surge of
conferences on ethics and humane use of technology. This too is a
conflict of socio-technical imaginaries -- is technology held
accountable through public means or through self-regulation? As Ochigame
describes, Tech industry wants to regulate itself, and universities like
MIT or Berkeley provide space and credibility for this socio-political
imaginary (Berkeley's own Division of Data Sciences is led by a
Microsoft veteran, Ochigame notes).

Having considered the EECS department, one can examine the
socio-technical imaginary of the students in their protest. The
students' chants including "Carol Christ, you know it's true, the crimes
of ICE depend of you" ethically implicate the University. They assert
that by providing services to Palantir, the UC perpetuates the system of
violence, even if they are not directly causing deportation (possibly in
response to this argument, UC Berkeley has since removed Palantir from
the list of Industrial Partners). They claim that a public institution
ought not to endorse a nefarious private entity -- especially one that
enables violence and terror on undocumented people (who may even be
students). Thus, the imaginary is that data science companies ought to
be constrained by morality laid out by the people, not by private
interests.

To some, the University lies above the political world: the halls of the
ivory tower are not to be troubled by the concerns of ordinary citizens.
To others, the political consequences of the University *must* be
considered in order to be a responsible citizen. UC Berkeley has both of
those sides -- the academic and the political -- each representing a
different vision of what role a university should play as an
institution. Ground-breaking science developed at Cal (eg. CRISPR, the
atomic bomb) has been accompanied by leaps forward in social justice
(eg. Anti-War, Disability Rights movements). Social movements are a
socio-technical imaginary in themselves -- a collective assertion of a
vision for a just world -- and in many ways, the students protesting
Palantir follow in this legacy.

Alexandra Casey and Angelina Wang, "Under pressure, Palantir cancels UC
Berkeley information session." *Daily Californian*, Date.

Berkeley Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, "EECS Industrial
Partners." Accessed September 28th, 2020.

Margo Boenig-Liptsin and Ari Edmundson, "Human Contexts and Ethics of
Data Toolkit." Accessed September 28th, 2020.

Rodrigo Ochigame, "The Invention of 'Ethical AI': How Big Tech
Manipulates Academia to Avoid Regulation." Dec 20, 2019.

at [September 28,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/an-ice-y-view-of-future.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/an-ice-y-view-of-future.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=197297495809573863&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=197297495809573863&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=197297495809573863&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=197297495809573863&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=197297495809573863&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 1 September 2020 {#tuesday-1-september-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Ashes of Yosemite](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/ashes-of-yosemite.html)  {#ashes-of-yosemite .list-paragraph}

*Whose ashes are these*

*Which coat the weary mountain?*

*Whose rage is this*

*To rain fire from skies above?*

*We open our eyes to Yosemite*

*A valley I know is tranquil*

*Yet beyond the mountains*

*I see the flames. The pain*

*Of those who lie within our wake*

*Along the ashes of Yosemite.*

at [September 01,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/ashes-of-yosemite.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/09/ashes-of-yosemite.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8436937190656008594&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8436937190656008594&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8436937190656008594&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8436937190656008594&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8436937190656008594&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 5 August 2020 {#wednesday-5-august-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [A humongous hunk of metal with wings](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/08/blog-post.html)  {#a-humongous-hunk-of-metal-with-wings .list-paragraph}

The last time I was on a plane was in March. Back then the world is in
chaos, and now it still is. The Coronavirus was looming. My university
had just been closed for the rest of the semester. California was about
to enter an emergency lockdown, as if there were some terrorist threat.
Presidents, Chancellors, and Prime Ministers were on TV, throwing about
words like "global pandemic" "public health crisis" "social distancing."
I didn't know what would happen -- would I even be able to board my
flight? Would police shoot anyone walking on the streets? How long would
this thing last? In that terror I walked onto a largely empty plane,
masked up and wary of what was to come.

Now I'm back on board United Airlines. The uncertainty that permeated
the air five months ago has mostly calloused into a bleak outlook for
the next few months, especially in the United States. Millions have lost
their jobs, hundreds of thousands have lost their lives, and countless
industries are scarred by this nuisance of a virus. Then there's my
comparatively small disappointment: the University of California,
Berkeley has canceled in-person classes. There won't be anyone hurrying
from class to class on campus -- there won't even be many students in
Berkeley -- for all of this semester and possibly through the following
Spring.

The Coronavirus is an invisible demon... but I suppose those are the
worst types. You can't see it, but you can see the havoc it reigns upon
us: scarred lungs, high temperatures, and a death threat. Somehow one
strand of RNA has uprooted the lives of every human on earth -- how is
that even possible?? I'm not sure I'll ever get over it.

The world is a bizarre place, in all honesty. Despite online classes I'm
still going to Berkeley to study. And I'm going there by *flying* in a
humongous hunk of metal with wings. When I stop to think about it, it's
miraculous that I'm even breathing thousands of feet off the ground.

In some sense the Coronavirus has made us reckon with our old selves.
Our world is bizarre and I ought to count my blessings that I live here,
not anywhere else. Think about the creators (spiritual or mechanical,
whichever you like) who invented things like flying machines, automated
vehicles, and a world-wide web of information... They must've been so
proud, and imagined how happy people would be after their invention was
widely distributed. What would they say to lol cats, COVID trips to
Hawaii or Formula One?

Nevertheless the world changes fast. A year ago if I read this very
essay, I wouldn't at all believe it (oh, such an innocent time. Is there
some way to go back?). In other ways, I guess the world doesn't really
change at all. Throughout our history there's always been the "arrogance
of man" as well as natural disasters to put us in our place. There's
always been selfish people who make things worse, and good people who
try to make things better. I guess this is another one of those
situations.

I, and I'm sure many others, wish they had behaved differently before
COVID-19... but I mean, this is the situation and it's all we've got.
Maybe if I resign myself to this, I'll be liberated from the thoughts of
"what if... what if\..." One day I know the world will return to normal,
but until then I think I'll enjoy life as best I can.

at [August 05, 2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/08/blog-post.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/08/blog-post.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6748470121933690715&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6748470121933690715&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6748470121933690715&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6748470121933690715&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6748470121933690715&target=pinterest)

## Wednesday 29 July 2020 {#wednesday-29-july-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Happy Birthday Stefan!](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/happy-birthday-stefan.html)  {#happy-birthday-stefan .list-paragraph}

*There once was a young Homentcovschi,*

*Whose legs were quite long and lanky.*

    *He sure loved the snow*

    *And skied like a pro*

*But off-season Stefan became cranky.*

*At the old age of twenty,*

*Stefan\'s joints ached aplenty*

    *So he looked hard at worms*

    *To age on [his]{.underline} terms*

*And [lysosomal
secrets](https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/advances/6/26/eaaz9805.full.pdf)
were found to his glee*

*Some days Stefan plays bio-engineer*

*Other times he is a fine mountaineer!*

    *A cooker of chille*

    *He\'s really quite silly,*

*He\'ll rick-roll you on trumpet for
[years](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TzXXHVhGXTQ)*

*On this fine day we\'ll celebrate*

*He who\'s my friend and roommate*

    *In summery July*

    *Thirty upon nigh*

*We honor this Homentcovschi\'s birth-date.*

at [July 29,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/happy-birthday-stefan.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/happy-birthday-stefan.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6035723357109509495&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6035723357109509495&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6035723357109509495&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6035723357109509495&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=6035723357109509495&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal),
[poetry](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/poetry)

## Tuesday 21 July 2020 {#tuesday-21-july-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Themes and reflections on Avatar: The Last Airbender](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/themes-and-reflections-on-avatar-last.html)  {#themes-and-reflections-on-avatar-the-last-airbender .list-paragraph}

**Introduction**\
\
*Avatar: The Last Airbender* tells of a Asiatic, fantasy world with four
great nations: the Water Tribes, the Earth Kingdom, the Fire Nation and
the Air Nomads. Some people in those nations can bend the elements,
using their powers for good or evil. A hundred years before the show\'s
beginning, the Fire Nation declared war on the others and are about to
finish what they started. Only the Avatar can unite all four elements
and bring balance to the world.\
\
*Avatar* is a kids\' show, but it\'s not *just* a kids\' show. It\'s a
cinematic master-piece, with hand-drawn animation and deep references to
East Asian religions and martial arts. It has a story that will blow you
away. It tells of balance & destiny, loss & family, changing cultures,
coming of age, and peace & violence. Those are the themes, at least,
that I will discuss here\... but watching it brought about far more
inspiration than I can discuss in a blog-post.\
\
I urge you to watch this show. After this introduction, I\'ll be
assuming you have\... Don\'t worry \-- you can always read my blog
later. But *Avatar* cannot wait \-- the fate of the world lies in your
hands.\
\
\
**Balance & Destiny**\
\
*\"My grandmother used to tell me stories about the old days \-- a time
of peace\... When the Avatar kept balance between the Water Tribes,
Earth Kingdom, Fire Nation and Air Nomads. But that all changed when the
Fire Nation attacked.\"*\
*\-- Katara, Book 1: Ep. 1*\
\
Balance and Destiny are key elements of the *Avatar* story. These
elements that make it a legend, rather than just an animation, in that
they make the action and the cultures portrayed in a spiritual context.\
\
First off, there\'s balance. The idea of balance probably comes from
Taoism. In Taoism, there is the Yin and the Yang which represents the
sun and moon or male and female. Yin and Yang is referenced directly In
Book 1 Ep. 20, when the moon spirit comes down from the spirit world and
takes the form of a fish \-- the balance is threatened when Commander
Zhao captures the Moon spirit. At other times, the characters must
balance the rage of warring nations, the home of spirits with fast-paced
industrialization, and the elements too: fire, earth, wind, and water.\
\
In regards to the elements, the Fire Nation is a grand force that pushed
them out of balanced. They started the war with Sozin\'s Comet, an
astrological moment that gave them enough power to slaughter the monks
of Aang\'s childhood. In these moments of destruction, the Fire Nation
forgot about the balance in the world. They became consumed by their
greed, and did not balance pride with compassion. They became a more
powerful nation but lost a sense of themselves: their cultures,
traditions, and *life*.\
\
We can learn from the Fire Nation\'s mistake in the non-Avatar world.
Here, we must balance our desires for money with our friendships; our
ego with our humility; our work and our life. Wiser people than me have
thought of this, so it\'s better to read about Taoism and the other
traditions referenced in *Avatar* before making claims. However, I do
think that the lessons about *balance* that the *Avatar* seeks to create
are relevant to us, too.\
\
Now, destiny. Take Prince Zuko, a character whose destiny is split. His
great-grandfather is Fire Lord Sozin, the one who started the war. But
his other great-grandfather is Avatar Roku, whose reincarnation is meant
to restore balance to the nations. Poor Zuko\'s life is in turmoil
because of actions of his fore-fathers, and no real fault of himself.
This is a theme in the novel, with characters being thrust into
situations or duties that they did not ask for. Zuko spends much of the
series searching his soul and trying to understand his true destiny \--
though this causes great anguish (much like real life: it is never easy
to go against a path set by your family). His half-scarred face
represents his split heritage and his undecided destiny: one side cursed
but longing for the Fire Lord\'s acceptance, the other side open to the
creation of a new world.\
\
Aang, too, is burdened with responsibilities that he didn\'t ask for.
Everyone expects him to \"bring balance to the world,\" because that is
what the Avatar has done for centuries. Aang is only a twelve-year-old
kid, but he takes on this responsibility with great diligence. He has no
other choice, after all \-- if that is what the Avatar has done for
10,000 years, who is he to stray from that path? That sense of destiny
is what gives the series intense weight, because the balance of the
elements lies on the protagonists\' shoulders. It\'s also what gives us
confidence in the characters, because we know that with destiny on their
side, they cannot fail. As Martin Luther King Jr. said, \"the arc of
history bends toward justice.\"\
\
But it is not easy to bring balance to the world. It is not done by
winning one battle, jailing on bad person, or learning one element.
Destiny \-- our duty to the world \-- takes a life of perseverance,
reflection, and commitment. With patience (and some story-telling), Aang
is able to bring balance to two warring tribes (Book 1: Ep. 11). With
reflection, Aang is able to unlock his seven chakras (Book 2: Ep. 20).
And with commitment, he and his friends are able to defeat the Fire Lord
and his armies, when all other hopes were lost (Book 3: Ep. 20).\
\
For the characters in *Avatar*, it was never easy to discover their
destiny, or bring balance to a world in such disarray. Goodness is never
easily won. And yet, they did it. In *our* world that\'s full of evils
like inequality and greed, I believe it is our destiny to restore
balance in any way we can.\
\
**Loss & Family**\
**\
***Leaves on the vine*\
*Falling so slow*\
*Like fragile tiny shells*\
*Drifting in the foam*\
*Little soldier boy*\
*Come marching home*\
*Brave soldier boy*\
*Comes marching home*\
\
So sings Uncle Iroh on the birthday of his lost son, Lu Ten. Iroh
transformed when he lost his son. He went from being a fiercesome
general \-- the Dragon of the West \-- to the kind old man who loved and
mentored all. In his vignette in *Tales of Ba Sing Se*, we focus on the
loss he faced in this long war. Lu Ten, in a way, symbolises the
countless nameless, faceless soldiers that die in great battles. As
tears flow from Iroh\'s face, and his voice cracks singing his lullaby,
we can sense some of the magnitude of his loss.\
\
Loss shaped him to be the kind soul he is, and so too did it shape
Katara, daughter of Kya. Because her mother died, and her father went
off to war, Katara assumes the role of a mature, responsible adult in
the Southern Water Tribe. Like many others in the story, she is
unwillingly thrust into adulthood because of violence a loss that
occured early in life. Katara performs this role so well, but this
tragedy had lasting impacts on her, too. She is as fierce as she is kind
when confronted with the man who murdered her mother in the name of the
Fire Nation, even using blood-bending on a suspect. Despite her
ferocity, Katara has suffered tragedies. When she cries out for her dad
\-- pleading him and Aang not to abandon her (Book 3: Ep. 2) \-- it
becomes clear that she *has* been deeply affected by losing loved ones.
Part of her is still the young girl who cried out for her lost mother,
and would do anything to get her back. In part, this drives her to
strike out against the Fire Nation and have hope in the Avatar. But in
her water-bending prowess and vast accomplishments, her loss is never
forgotten.\
\
Finally, Zuko and Azula also face loss; not from the death of their
parents, but by their rejection. Zuko is unloved and disregarded by
Ozai, his cruel father. But even after banishment, a lifelong scar, and
humiliation, Zuko still craves Ozai\'s approval. I think this shows the
way that family shaped Zuko, even with all that he went through. Raised
in the Fire Nation palace, loved by his mother and admiring his father,
Zuko couldn\'t help but dream to be accepted by the Fire Nation and
aspire to become Fire Lord. Azula, too, was born into a war-hungry,
violent family. Her mother, Ursa, deemed her monstrous, which led to an
exaggeration of that trait and a reluctance to grow close to anyone.
Azula, like her fore-fathers in the Imperialist Fire Nation, seeks power
and victory \-- not balance or friendship \-- as her teenage dream. And
when this is torn from her by Zuko, and when her friends also turn on
her, she is abandoned in her own mental torture.\
\
It\'s important that *Avatar: The Last Airbender* deals with loss. It
shapes the characters in ways that I can only attempt to understand.
That is the legacy of war: not victory or conquest, but unimaginable
grief.\
\
**Changing cultures**\
\
Few children\'s shows deal with genocide, but *Avatar* tackles the topic
bravely. While Aang was in the iceberg, the Fire Nation went to each Air
Temple and killed the Air Nomads \-- the monks, children, and venerable
teachers that Aang knew and loved (including Monk Gyatso, Aang\'s tutor
and advocate). Aang comes to know this suddenly in Book 1: Ep. 3, when
he sees the remains of the Southern Air Temple. He is driven to the
*Avatar* state, searching for vengeance on those who destroyed his
family. How can it be, to be the sole survivor of a genocide? To be the
last air-bender? How large was his guilt at being absent when the
genocide happened? (Book 1: Ep. 12)\
\
This guilt becomes anger when Aang finds out that the Northern Air
Temple has been remade by a steam-punk group with engineered gliders
(Book 1, Chap. 17). At first, Aang hates the idea of his spiritual home
being used for this new purpose. His conservatism is understandable. How
can these people change a culture that is on the brink of extinction?
The engineers knew little of the Air Nomads, and still took over the
sacred temple with no authority to do so. Eventually, Aang accepts what
has happened to the temple. He understands that the engineers need a
place to live, and have tried their best to imitate some Air Nomad
traditions without the powers of bending. Nonetheless, it is important
to give respect to communities and traditions we have built from, and
respect their soveirgnity in the modernized world.\
 \
As a migrant through time, Aang also experiences the change in the Fire
Nation after they became an Imperialist power. In Book 3: Ep. 2, Aang
goes to Fire Nation school, and learns about the false history they tell
in annihilating the Air Nomad\'s army (in reality, the Air Nomads were
monks and had no military force). Later in that episode, he teaches his
schoolmates the bright and lively dances of the old Fire Nation, letting
them loose and liberating them from the oppressive education system that
resembles Victorian England. Their students are brought up to be
soldiers and despise the other three great civilizations. This education
system was really interesting to me \-- it shows not only have the Fire
Nation oppressed others, they have repressed their own fluorishing,
creative culture.\
\
The Fire Nation twists their cultures in more ways than one. Prince Zuko
loses his ability to fire-bend when he lets go his hatred for Aang.
Previously, that hatred was what gave him \-- and all other fire-benders
\-- the power to bend. So Aang and Zuko seek to re-learn fire-bending
(Book 3, Ep. 12). They find the Sun Warriors and meet the last Dragons:
Ran and Shaw. The Dragons take the Chinese form, with long bodies and
noble whiskers, rather than the Westernized dragons seen in most
American media. Ran and Shaw teach Aang and Zuko the origins of
fire-bending: an art with beauty and life, rather than hate and
aggression. With this, Zuko\'s fire-bending becomes stronger than
before, and more in line with the original teachers. This story is yet
another example of how the Fire Nation transformed their culture,
leading with fear and oppression rather than its noble origins.\
\
(there\'s also Avatar Day, where an Earth Nation town burns statues of
the Avatars in retaliation of a former leader. This town ends up
honoring Aang for saving them. This is an example of how great figures
like the Avatar can change cultures).\
\
Cultures change constantly in our lives. Some of that can be good, but
it\'s worth considering when it\'s not. In *Avatar*, cultures change
mostly from war and conflict. In particular, this changes the fabric of
the Fire Nation. Everyone born in such a culture becomes someone they
are not meant to be.\
\
\
**Coming of age**\
\
Most of the main characters in *Avatar* are kids, and thus we see
remarkable growth and maturity throughout the course of the series.\
**\
**Take Prince Zuko, a banished teenager struggling to regain his honor.
He starts out angry and obsessed with hunting the Avatar. Zuko is
powerful, but harbors resentment to Azula and Ozai, feeling ostracized
and desperate to prove his worth. Eventually, when Zuko *is* accepted by
his father and has everything he had ever wanted, he realizes that it is
not the right path for him. His Uncle was right \-- he realizes \-- and
Zuko decides that to be his own man, he must forge his own destiny. With
this resolve Zuko confronts his father and helps Aang bring balance to
the Four Nations, playing a essential role in ending the war.\
\
Saaka, too, is a character that grows from a Southern Water Tribe boy.
He starts out cocky, ordering about the little kids in his village, but
his humbled as he sees the Kyoshi Warriors and his element-bending
friends. He loses a girl he loves to the heavens, and fights endlessly
to save Suki from danger (not that she needed saving, anyways). His
growth cumulates in Book 3, Ep. 4 when he learns the Way of the Sword
from Pian Dao. He spends hours painting, practicing, and meditating
under this master. Such obedience would offend the proud water tribe
boy, but Saaka takes it with stride. It pays off, too, as his
swords-master challenges him to a duel and Saaka practically wins. His
ingenuity and courage is tested many times in the series, but every time
Saaka asserts himself as a valuable member of Team Avatar.\
\
Aang, of course, bears the burden of being the Avatar. A hundred years
ago, before the Fire Nation sparked destruction, Aang\'s destiny drove
him to run away from the Air Nomads. He was caught in a storm of despair
and longing for his old childhood (Book 1: Ep. 12). In the series, he
realizes that a lot rests on his shoulders. Defeating the Fire Lord was
never going to be an easy task. However, Aang\'s mentors help him in
facing this massive challenge. Avatar Roku helps him learn the history
of the Avatar and the Fire Lord (Book 3: Ep. 6), and the powers and
peril of the Avatar State. Iroh hears Aang\'s desperation and advises
that: \"sometimes life is like this dark tunnel. You can\'t always seee
the light at the end of the tunnel, but if you just keep moving, you
will come to a better place.\" (Book 3: Ch. 19). Toph teaches Aang the
strength of will and solidity that lets him become an earth-bender.
Katara and Zuko teach him how to bend water and fire. And Guru Pathik
helps Aang unlock his seven chakras and be free from his material
possessions. These mentors help Aang face the challenges of his burdened
life, a necessary component of coming of age.\
\
Aang\'s friends help him too \-- especially his budding romance with
Katara. Katara offers immense emotional support to Aang, helping him
bear the burden of the Hundred Years War. Only Katara can coax Aang out
of the Avatar State, brought by the fury at losing Appa or his Air Nomad
brethren. And Katara always believes in Aang, since the very beginning
of opening sequence.\
In some ways it is natural that Aang falls in love with Katara, but in
other ways it\'s odd because of the motherly, care-taking role that she
plays in his life (Aang and Toph may have been a better choice).
Nonetheless, their romance cements the support that they have for each
other, a heart-warming consequence of the journey they went through.\
\
It\'s nice to read coming of age stories. It makes young children think
about their experiences and what kind of person they want to become. And
it makes old people like me reflect on our adolescence and what shaped
us. In *Avatar*, we see the importance of mentors, friendships, and
self-determination in making us the people we want to be.\
\
**Peace and Violence**\
\
*\"You were right about what Katara needed. Violence wasn\'t the
answer\... But I have a question for you \-- what are you gonna do when
you face my father?\"*\
*\-- Prince Zuko, Book 3: Ep. 14*\
\
The interplay of peace and violence is central to the Avatar narrative.
Violence is the flame that starts conflict or a transformation\... until
peace is called to calm the storm.\
\
Consider Zuko\'s journey of banishment and eventual re-claiming of the
Fire Lord. His journey starts with a violent tradition: the Agni Kai.
This duel against his father is what scarred him, and marked his destiny
to hunt the Avatar during his banishment. And, indeed, his \"treason\"
was protesting a Fire Nation general\'s decision to send innocent
soldiers to die in battle. In both causes, Zuko fought violence with
non-violence \-- maintaining his honor and showing his true self. When
Zuko faces Azula in the Book 3 Finale, he must return to the violent
tradition of the Agni Kai. This time, he wins, having knowledge of
original fire benders, but he does not scar Azula in the same way his
father scarred him. He uses violence as a means to achieving peace. And
further, he risks his own life to save Katara, another selfless act that
solidifies his position as a peaceful Fire Lord.\
\
Iroh\'s transformation, too, is one from violence to peace. We see Iroh
as a laid-back, tea-loving Uncle in the beginning of the series. Later,
however, we find out his bloody past: his ferocity in battle, his
laughter at the siege of Ba Sing Se. His culture \-- which Zuko shared
\-- is one that valorizes violence and the destruction of others, and so
it is natural for him to have these traits from being born into it.
However, as mentioned in *Loss & Family,* the death of Iroh\'s son is
what drives Iroh to become a peaceful man. He treats all people, no
matter their nationality, as friends. He allows himself to go to Fire
Nation prison to save Aang and his friends. The peace and self-sacrifice
with which Iroh carries himself is the epitome of non-violence.\
\
Another character that battles with violence is Katara. Her commitment
to non-violence is tested when Zuko helps her find the man who murdered
her mother (Book 3: Ep. 14). (Katara\'s mother, Kya, sacrified herself
by saying she was a water bender. Another example of self-sacrifice to
protect others). Katara now has power over the man who kill her mother,
but decides \-- with Aang\'s encouragement \-- to forgive him, rather
than take vengeance. She realizes that killing a man will not bring back
her mother or her childhood \-- it will only continue the cycle of
violence. As Aang says, doing nothing is easy, but forgiving is hard.
Thus the path to peace tests Katara in a way that no battle could.\
\
Aang and the Air Nomads are of course, non-violent till the end. Aang
takes immense care of Appa and Momo, treating them like family even in
the toughest conditions. When Appa is lost in Book 2, Aang cries and
searches far and wide to find him again. Aang and the other Air Nomads
are also devout vegetarians, showing their peaceful devotion to
non-human animals and nature. And in battle, Aang avoids hurting his
opponents. He dodges attacks thrown at him, and avoids striking by
carefully tying up or otherwise incapacitating his opponents.\
\
The fate of Fire Lord Ozai is the ultimate test of Aang\'s non-violence.
How will he treat this man \-- the descendent of the people who murdered
his people? A man with plans to wipe out the entire Earth Nation? Aang
asks the Avatars of the past, who tell him time and time again to \"be
decisive\" and \"finish\" the Fire Lord. This answer was not
satisfactory for Aang. He searches his heart and the lineage of the
Avatars and finds an answer: energy-bending. Instead of killing Ozai,
Aang takes his fire-bending powers away from him. He ends this bloody
war without a single needless death.\
\
**Conclusion**\
\
You probably know why I like *Avatar* so much. There\'s so much to
unpack, and my blog-post only scratched the surface (some other themes:
friendship, resistance, gender empowerment). Each episode has it\'s own
story, beautifully wrapped in a 25-minute ball of goodness. The
epic-ness of the saga parallels *Lord of the Rings*, *Harry Potter*, and
*Eragon* \-- the last two of which shaped my childhood in many ways.\
\
I think *Avatar* is a powerful example of how fiction can really make a
difference. The lessons we learn from Aang, Katara, Zuko or Iroh inspire
us to be better people and bring balance to our own lives in any way we
can.\
\
I feel really grateful that the show exists, and that so many talented
people put time into writing, story-boarding, animating, music-ing,
sound-tracking, and spreading the message to kids and adults across the
world. The lessons of Team Avatar will not be forgotten, and remain dear
to my heart.

at [July 21,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/themes-and-reflections-on-avatar-last.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/themes-and-reflections-on-avatar-last.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8878713269420101181&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8878713269420101181&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8878713269420101181&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8878713269420101181&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8878713269420101181&target=pinterest)

## Monday 6 July 2020 {#monday-6-july-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Don\'t worry, be happy!](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/happiness.html)  {#dont-worry-be-happy .list-paragraph}

We all know people in our who are extremely happy. People who float like
bubbles over the concerns that plague others. People who bounce back
from adversity like a ball of elastics, ready to get up, stretch, and
tackle another day.\
\
I think we should have more respect for these people. After all, we have
lists of the ten richest men, women, countries and cities. But what
about the happiest people? Where\'s their medal of honor?\
\
Part of the problem is that you can\'t compare happiness in the same way
you can compare money. Still, though, we can at least look at people
close to us. Who seems like they\'re in a reasonably pleasant mood, most
of the time? That\'s not too hard to figure out. And better yet, we can
look at ourselves. Am I happy right now? How about yesterday? Maybe I
should check again tomorrow.\
\
I wonder if we had a world based on happiness, how economics would
change. Maybe there\'d be people betting on the happiness of firms, and
whether they\'ll go up or down in the coming months. Maybe we would
trade stories and experiences, rather than material things. Maybe we\'d
choose our majors, jobs, and past-times not on what impresses others,
but what really makes us feel like life\'s worth living (of course, you
have to put the bread on the table, too).\
\
I\'m really repeating things that others have very eloquently said. My
professor Clair Brown wrote a book on [*Buddhist
Economics*](https://buddhisteconomics.net/), which deals with the
economics of happiness, sustainability, and shared prosperity. The
[World Happiness
Report](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Happiness_Report) is
published by the UN each year (it would lovely if more analysis were
done on this report, rather than monetary measures). And the reason I\'m
thinking about this at all is because I\'m taking a course at the
Greater Good Science Center about the [Science of
Happiness](https://www.edx.org/course/the-science-of-happiness-3), which
I highly recommend.\
\
Like money, happiness is something we have to work towards. Just because
someone\'s rich or lives in an industrialized nation doesn\'t mean
they\'re automatically cheerful all the time (we all know that). So
it\'s worth considering \-- what makes you happy? And how can you bring
that more often into your life?

at [July 06, 2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/happiness.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/07/happiness.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1322705134151476135&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1322705134151476135&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1322705134151476135&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1322705134151476135&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1322705134151476135&target=pinterest)

## Monday 29 June 2020 {#monday-29-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [What I think about when I think about running](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/what-i-think-about-when-i-think-about.html)  {#what-i-think-about-when-i-think-about-running .list-paragraph}

Today, rather predictably, running was the thing that really centered
me. I try to run most days, but that doesn\'t happen unless I\'m coerced
into it by some third party. The feeling before a run \-- a feeling of
lethargy and attachment to a present couch \-- is one that all runners
know. I think the only difference between fast runners and slow runners
is that fast runners can get outside, every time.\
\
In engineering or computer science, people often try to find the
shortest path between two points. Pure efficiency. In running, however,
the goal is really to find the *longest* path to your destination. Pure
inefficiency. In fact, most times when I run I do go in a circle\*,
which doesn\'t get me anywhere at all! These days such an idea seems
slightly barbaric. But somehow, the act of running \-- no matter how
painful and inefficient \-- brings me a certain joy. I do love that
feeling, pressing my feet into the earth, step after step, and slowly
making my way to some place ahead. I usually have no destination in
mind, and I try to take every detour and passage-way and unexplored
street I can possibly find.\
\
Sometimes when I run I look around, seeing the branches and trees and
children and dogs playing about. It\'s quite rare on a run that I finish
and think \"wow, there was absolutely nothing of interest on the 4 miles
I jogged.\" But if I\'m honest with myself, I don\'t pay much attention
to my surroundings. I\'m usually absorbed in myself, deconstructing
something someone said to me, mulling over how I wasn\'t invited to some
exciting event, or occasionally, thinking about what to write in my
journal.\
\
Wherever I went, and whatever was on my mind, when my run is over my
mind is clear. The stormy clouds part to reveal a summer\'s day.\
\
\* or rather, a closed path. My multi-variable calculus professor,
[Maciej Zworski](https://math.berkeley.edu/~zworski/), would correct me
on that.

at [June 29,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/what-i-think-about-when-i-think-about.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/what-i-think-about-when-i-think-about.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=85239967445553310&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=85239967445553310&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=85239967445553310&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=85239967445553310&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=85239967445553310&target=pinterest)

## Tuesday 23 June 2020 {#tuesday-23-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [A rant about Salesforce](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/a-rant-about-salesforce.html)  {#a-rant-about-salesforce .list-paragraph}

Let\'s talk about Salesforce. Maybe you don\'t care about them or what
they do \--  frankly I don\'t either \-- but many people from my school
want to go work there. Their internships will give you free housing and
lots of money. And according to the stock market they\'re worth
[171](https://ycharts.com/companies/CRM/market_cap) billion dollars.\
\
First I should say what they do, because the name *Salesforce* isn\'t
exactly self-explanatory. Salesforce analyzes a bunch of data. They
provide a service, selling special software and algorithms that only
they and their Berkeley-educated employees know how to use. Let\'s look
at [their website](https://www.salesforce.com/) and see what they say.

Turn more contacts into customers.

Mkay.

Collaborate to close deals faster.

Good word, collaborate + the age old adage: *always be closing*.

Reduce customer response time and build positive, lasting relationships
with your clients.

Ah. Maybe Salesforce is some kind of therapist, letting you help your
clients and help them find out their inner fears. And if customers
respond faster, you can connect more often \-- kinda like a booty call.\
\
Now this is interesting, because even though Salesforce does a very
innocuous thing, they\'ve had a lot of criticism. (I\'m just looking at
their Wikipedia page, so don\'t take this as high quality investigative
journalism).

1.  RAICES donation refusal. The Refugee and Immigrant Center for
    > Education and Legal Services provides legal services to immigrants
    > in the US. They also provide housing for people being tracked down
    > by certain authoritarian governments who don\'t want foreigners in
    > a country. They do a great thing. But when Salesforce tried to
    > give 250,000\$ to them, RAICES refused the donation. Jonathan
    > Ryan, then director of RAICES
    > [said](https://twitter.com/RAICESTEXAS/status/1019975176140701696),
    > \"the technical services you \[Salesforce\] provide to CBP form
    > the foundation that helps ICE operate efficiently\... your
    > software provides an operational backbone for the agency. There is
    > no room for hair splitting when children are being brutally torn
    > away from parents, when a mother attempts suicide in an effort to
    > get her children released\....\" Interesting, maybe RAICES is just
    > too picky.

2.  Assisting in sex trafficking. In 2019 fifty anonymous women [filed a
    > lawsuit](https://www.itpro.co.uk/cloud/33343/salesforce-sued-over-dealings-with-sex-trafficking-site)
    > against Salesforce for profiting from and facilitating sex
    > trafficking on Backpage.com, which Salesforce does analytics for.
    > But, I mean, come on \-- everyone does a bit of shady business now
    > and then, right?

3.  In 2018 Salesforce, along with dozens of other rich companies, paid
    > an effective federal tax rate of **0%**. That money\'s supposed to
    > give schools, food, and clean water to Americans. And instead,
    > it\'s going to Salesforce executives \-- and perhaps a Berkeley
    > students\' internship stipend.

Maybe these breaches in morality are okay though, a means to an end.
Because Salesforce does a good thing, right? They\'re helping small
businesses grow. They\'re building authentic relationships with
customers. They\'re closing deals and growing the economy.\
\
But let\'s dig a little deeper into Salesforce\'s language.

Turn more contacts into customers.

This is targeted advertising. Actually, it\'s worse than that, because
with the troves of data that Salesforce has they find out *everything*
about their customers \-- much like Facebook constructs ghost profiles
of non-users. This is not advertising \-- it\'s hypnosis, behavior
manipulation via technology.

Collaborate to close deals faster.

Closing deals faster? This is a fetishism of productivity. The companies
that make best use of \"analytics, reporting, and forecasting\" are the
big ones, the ones that\'ll grow even richer with these tools.

Reduce customer response time and build positive, lasting relationships
with your clients.

There is not a \"positive, lasting relationship\" \-- there is an
exploitative, abusive one where Salesforce and their partners turn *you*
into a raw material. They want your money. Your attention will be bought
and sold \-- and so too your votes or purchases \-- with Salesforce\'s
help.\
\
\"Agh, okay Rohan. We get the point,\" you say. \"Salesforce is evil,
and I\'ll never work there.\"\
\
No, no. I don\'t blame you, or any of my Berkeley friends. We live in a
system that encourages us to think these ways and value questionable
technology. In fact for some, a job at Salesforce may be the best thing
out there (or maybe not! You should explore).\
\
But for god\'s sake, don\'t *brag* that you got an internship at
Salesforce or Snapchat or TikTok or the next cool thing out there.
Don\'t talk about *data science* or *artificial intelligence* like it\'s
going to save humankind (It\'s probably doing the opposite). Don\'t read
those company slogans and think you\'re at all making a difference,
because that\'s not the point of a corporation. Working under capitalism
should be something you don\'t *want* to do, but you have to \-- kind of
like voting for Joe Biden or eating your veggies.

at [June 23,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/a-rant-about-salesforce.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/a-rant-about-salesforce.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7501424716394789740&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7501424716394789740&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7501424716394789740&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7501424716394789740&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7501424716394789740&target=pinterest)

Labels:
[capitalism](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/capitalism),
[technology](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/technology)

## Monday 22 June 2020 {#monday-22-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [The cloud in our hearts](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/the-cloud-in-our-hearts.html)  {#the-cloud-in-our-hearts .list-paragraph}

I struggle to read my book in the garden. There\'s two reasons, so bear
with me. The first is that the London sun seems to never settle. She\'s
like an angry child \-- either warm and overly loving or throwing a
temper tantrum and not to be seen. So, you wonder, why don\'t I sit in
the shade and avoid this child altogether? The second reason is that I
have allergies, and sitting in the shade means sitting in the grass, and
that means that the sniffles start up. It\'s hard to read a book
drenched in [flowing nasal
discharge](https://www.chinesepod.com/dictionary/流鼻涕) (trust me on
this). So you see, for this simple task, location matters.\
\
The students of Berkeley have recently been faced with a similar
challenge. It\'s because Doctor of Philosophy (etc.) Madam Carol Christ
told us that basically school is cancelled. Distance learning, remote
classes, Zoom University, it\'s been called. And she went on, saying
there\'s an new offering called Semester in Cloud.\
\
The University of California thinks we\'re chumps and will take her up
on this, since we just can\'t get enough of this learning business. The
worst part is that they\'re right. Everyone from 1st years to super
seniors are essentially taking classes as usual \-- except now, we
don\'t have to be in Berkeley.\
\
In some ways this movement is a inevitable part of life. You see, back
in the day our ancestors lived in the villages. Then they moved to the
cities, maybe to find work and get a good education. Now the cities are
out of favor, so some are moving to ~~the cloud~~ *The Cloud (TM)*. So
this whole idea \-- the Semester in the Cloud \-- raises some practical
questions. What does the cloud look like? Does it have an address? How
much does rent cost there?\
\
Dr. Christ is smart though \-- and due to her name not completely
secular \-- so I suspect there\'s something more going on. Something
spiritual. You see, just like Avatar Aang (the last Airbender, of
course) is the portal to the spirit world, we can be the portals to *the
clouuuddd.* Aang closes his eyes, his tattoos flash (are they made from
fireflies?), and his spirit and body separate. His spirit is far more
exciting, for it wanders around swamps and meets Avatars of the past and
creatures older than humanity. Then his physical body just sits there,
lotus position.\
\
Just like this, I imagine that a Semester in the Cloud is a journey to
the spirit world. When we go we shall shuffle off our mortal coils and
transcend to a world grander than life. We shall explore the worlds of
environmental economics, abstract algebra, or epidemiology \-- growing
and changing and forming a better life for ourselves.  Meanwhile our
physical bodies will pay lots of money to sit comfortably in a chair and
stare at a computer screen most of the day.\
\
The cloud is in our ears and in front of our eyes and frankly in our
hearts. We have grown up with the cloud following our every move. Many
of us think of it as a third parent. Yet, like some horrid divorce, we
are forced to pin the cloud down to a location and make it sign a lease.
Some say move to Boulder, Colorado; others pretend that the spirit world
can only exist near UC Berkeley. Some may stay in their childhood
bedroom, and explore academic life like a rather dull night-time dream.
As the Philosopher Tynan said, it\'s a continuum of options, ranging
from loneliness to Coronaness. The world is our oyster.

at [June 22,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/the-cloud-in-our-hearts.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/the-cloud-in-our-hearts.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8599492494711961053&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8599492494711961053&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8599492494711961053&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8599492494711961053&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8599492494711961053&target=pinterest)

## Friday 19 June 2020

### [Big Bad Jeff Post-mortem](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/big-bad-jeff-post-mortem.html)  {#big-bad-jeff-post-mortem .list-paragraph}

Exactly four weeks ago I released my animation *How to Change the World*
about Rosa Parks\... and today I finished rendering this baby shark
parody, *Big Bad Jeff*.

My gosh, this was time-consuming. I used software called Synfig, which
is designed for 2D animations and allows for skeletons, vector graphics,
and any number of objects moving around the screen. I thought it was the
right tool for the job \-- much better than hand-drawing each frame \--
but it was really complicated! A large part of these 4 weeks has been,
in different ways, learning how this software works properly. Hopefully
if I use Synfig in the future, it\'ll go a lot faster.\
\
Now, the actual topic: Jeff Bezos. Amazon\'s a company so many people
know, there\'s no shortage of media about him, and no shortage of
attacks on his company. Amazon provides a great service but, honestly, a
company that big shouldn\'t exist. And a person that rich shouldn\'t
exist either. Personally I enjoyed watching Hasan Minhaj\'s [*Patriot
Act* video about this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5maXvZ5fyQY), and
a kick-starter to create this video came from *[Is Amazon
Unstoppable](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/10/21/is-amazon-unstoppable)*
in the New Yorker.\
\
Of course, this is the first time such commentary has been offered via
Baby Shark parody (to my knowledge, at least). [Baby
Shark](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XqZsoesa55w) is a kids animation
/ dance video with 5.5 billion views on Youtube. That\'s a ridiculous
amount of views. I first saw it doing morning workouts with kids in
China. It\'s quite an ear-worm (believe me, I\'ve listened to the audio
over a hundred times now) \-- though honestly I don\'t know why it\'s
*so* popular. The natural thing to do was to combine the Bezos/Amazon
critique with a Baby Shark Parody. Anyone could have thought of it! But
really, I\'m not sure why it occurred to me\... and I\'m even less sure
why I spent four weeks working on this darn video.\
\
In recent weeks Amazon\'s predatory nature has become really obvious to
me. The way they bully companies into marketing on their website, bully
factory workers, buy out businesses or put them out of business\...
It\'s shark-like. Also, the amount of wealth CEO\'s like Jeff Bezos are
getting during the Coronavirus crisis \-- while millions others are
starving on the streets \-- is staggering. Wealth inequality is
staggering. I commend the recent efforts to curb the Amazon monopoly,
limit merges and acquisitions, and place a vigorous wealth tax on the
rich (spearheaded by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortex and Elizabeth Warren).\
\
I tried to be light-hearted and really poke fun at Jeff, rather
blatantly attack his company. I think \"the left\" (whatever that is)
can be overly-harsh and negative sometimes\... Critiques are important,
but they\'re best given with a smile on your face. Mr. Bezos on \$100
bills, or him hanging out with Mr. Coronavirus is meant to show the
ridiculousness of it all. There\'s tons of anti-Amazon pieces out there,
I think my animation falls in a different space. Something that makes
you smile, is made for kids, *and* points out injustice.\
\
Thanks for reading and watching. If you\'ve read this far on the
blog-post you may as well give a comment below :D. Right now, I\'m
excited to rest for a few days and then tackle my next creative project!

at [June 19,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/big-bad-jeff-post-mortem.html)
[2
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/big-bad-jeff-post-mortem.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=687234186155584394&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=687234186155584394&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=687234186155584394&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=687234186155584394&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=687234186155584394&target=pinterest)

Labels:
[capitalism](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/capitalism),
[technology](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/technology)

## Tuesday 16 June 2020 {#tuesday-16-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Yeasty Love](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/yeasty-love.html)  {#yeasty-love .list-paragraph}

Shall I compare thee\
To a mush-a-room?\
Whose earthy presence\
Roasts deliciously.\
\
Rich in vitamin\
And in heart\
Your strength to grow\
When we\'re apart.\
\
You grew on me,\
And the tomatoes in the fridge,\
Slow at first but suddenly\
My fridge was full of you.\
\
At times you have me truffled\
With a magic sort of trance\
I turn to spirituality\
As you make me want to dance.\
\
Deep in earth you may bring light\
[To
Mario](https://wwwdabblebabble.wordpress.com/2020/06/12/how-low-can-you-go/),
you bring sensation\
To me you bring scrumptiousness\
In one bulbous creation.

at [June 16, 2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/yeasty-love.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/yeasty-love.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5749562278811090911&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5749562278811090911&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5749562278811090911&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5749562278811090911&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5749562278811090911&target=pinterest)

Labels: [poetry](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/poetry)

## Monday 8 June 2020 {#monday-8-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Five minutes to go](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/five-minutes-to-go.html)  {#five-minutes-to-go .list-paragraph}

As a little kid I always thought that five minutes more was a blessing.
*Five* more minutes meant another round of battling legos, another game
of tag, or really anything else you could think of. As the philosopher
[euclonho describes
it](https://wwwdabblebabble.wordpress.com/2020/06/02/specific/),
multiples of five are \"holes in the time line\... little pockets of
handwavy-ness where you\'re allowed to steal time from the universe
within the bounds of social convention.\"

These days, however, I know the power of five minutes. Telling someone
\"I\'ll be there in five minutes\" means that you\'ll pretty much be
late. It\'s a dangerous thing, those five minutes, because a whole lot
can happen in them, yet the whole time you have to be alert, ready, and
waiting for the clock to strike midnight. On the flip side, when we say
\"three minutes left\"  \-- well, that\'s a scary thing too. It means
that exactly 180 seconds will be ticked on a Grandfather\'s clock until
[Doomsday](https://thebulletin.org/doomsday-clock/) arrives.

These days, amidst the Great Quaroutine, five minutes is no more time
than it takes for Jack Sparrow to find whiskey on a deserted island.
Five hours may be closer to the singularity euclonho describes \-- or
perhaps five days. After all, in our memories five minutes and five days
really act the same way. But then, when we sleep how far does five
minutes get you? Perhaps just as far as five inches in the Space Race.

at [June 08,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/five-minutes-to-go.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/five-minutes-to-go.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8059214107707294878&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8059214107707294878&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8059214107707294878&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8059214107707294878&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=8059214107707294878&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal)

## Tuesday 2 June 2020 {#tuesday-2-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Whitey\'s off to space](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/maybe-youve-heard-this-poem-before.html)  {#whiteys-off-to-space .list-paragraph}

Maybe you\'ve heard this poem before: *Whitey On the Moon.*

Gil Scott-Heron released this in 1970, the year after the US Apollo
mission had landed on the moon. The excitement back then must have been
palpable. For all of human history, the moon was just a distant orb in
the night-sky. Now, it could be explored \-- and Americans were doing
it.\
\
Mr. Scott-Heron offers a different take. It\'s not him on the moon,
after all \-- it\'s Whitey. Whitey on the Moon won\'t help Gil pay rent,
won\'t help his doctor bill, won\'t help costly food. And what would Gil
say today? Well no matter who\'s off to space, it won\'t help black folk
with bullets in their face.\
\
The premise of the space mission is that we\'re all in it together. The
creators of *Stark Trek* dreamed of exploring \"Space: the final
frontier\". They dreamed of a prosperous, post-racial world where
technology has pushed us \-- all of us \-- past boundaries we never have
dared to break. Elon Musk says that space travel is \"about believing in
the future and thinking that the future will be better than the past.\"
He hopes we can forgo our tumultuous history on earth and soar into the
beyond.\
\
*But*, I\'m not sure that\'s really possible these days, or that it ever
was. For all the talk about post-racial unity, why did [NASA
tote](https://history.nasa.gov/sp4801-chapter22.pdf) anti-black policies
until 1971? Why did women\'s work go
[uncredited](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt4846340/) even though it was
*fundamental* to the Space Race? In 1969, the space mission was
government-funded but still science for the elite.\
\
Last Saturday, SpaceX launched two astronauts to the International Space
Station. [According to them](https://www.spacex.com/launches/), the
\"Commercial Crew Program is a turning point for America\'s future in
space exploration that lays the groundwork for future missions to the
Moon, Mars, and Beyond.\"\
\
Was the SpaceX launch cool? I admit yes.\
\
But has it unified the country? Does it signify a post-racial American
utopia? Hell no. Elon has divided us further \-- his launch has set our
sights to the beyond when what we need more than anything is to look
deeper at home. This is no public enterprise but the fantasy of a sole
billionaire, a result of extreme inequality (*of course* our fascist
President would [endorse
it](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/961073467784421382)).\
\
It\'s interesting to compare space exploration to the Age of
Exploration. This time is remembered fondly in our textbooks. New
countries being \"discovered\", trade routes and cross-culturalism
abound. But this viewpoint conveniently ignores the genocide of Native
Americans, the cruel and hegemonic British Empire, and the mass
spreading of disease.\
\
Now, developing countries [fighting
Coronavirus](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2020/apr/21/coronavirus-disaster-developing-nations-global-marshall-plan),
people are raising their voices against police brutality, and, well \--
Whitey\'s off to space.

at [June 02,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/maybe-youve-heard-this-poem-before.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/maybe-youve-heard-this-poem-before.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1975726997383080602&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1975726997383080602&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1975726997383080602&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1975726997383080602&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=1975726997383080602&target=pinterest)

Labels: [social
change](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/social change)

## Monday 1 June 2020 {#monday-1-june-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Never Let Me Go by Kazuo Ishiguro](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/never-let-me-go-by-kazuo-ishiguro.html)  {#never-let-me-go-by-kazuo-ishiguro .list-paragraph}

*Never Let Me Go* is a sad story.\
\
There are some stories that grip you from start to finish. Page-turners
or thrillers they might be called. And then there are stories that take
you to another world, a place so magical that you can escape from the
mundane-ness of real life.\
\
*Never Let Me Go* did none of those things, yet it caught me in a
trance. The setting of the story (this review will contain spoilers) is
a place called Hailsham, a boarding school for children. Part 1 deals
with the main characters \-- Kathy, Ruth, and Tommy \-- as they grow up
in the school. In Part 2, the characters move to the Cottages where they
meet students from other schools and are in anticipation of training for
their future occupations. They must grapple with the brutal reality that
they are clones, born only so that their organs may be harvested. They
hope with all hopes that there may be a way out. And in Part 3, Kathy
becomes a carer for Ruth and Tommy. They reflect on their experiences,
soaking in their last moments together before they are \"completed\",
and Tommy and Kathy eventually try to fight against the dismal path that
has been set for them.\
\
This novel is not driven by plot. This is no *Harry Potter*, where
knowing that Snape killed Dumbledore can ruin the book for a young
reader (or *Mice and Men*, god forbid a spoiler for that). *Never Let Me
Go* is written in a matter-of-fact yet carefully considered way. In the
early chapters there is no sense that Kathy even lives in a dystopian
world. We are immersed in her childlike innocence. There are some
strange aspects, like why the kids have to trade in art for tokens, or
where the parents of these children are\... but more pressing are the
day-to-day things. Why is everyone so mean to Tommy? Why is Ruth such a
poser?\
\
At first, I felt unfamiliar with this type of novel. In real-life,
movies, and books, I\'m usually perplexed why people get upset (as J.K.
Rowling might say, I have the \'emotional range of a teaspoon\'). I
reflect now that we really do live in the realm of symbols. What does it
mean when someone ignores you in a conversation? When someone gangs up
on you with your best friend? When someone keeps your unspoken secret?
These actions really do matter, not just in the sense of their material
result. So too does tone, and the way we can be kind and gentle, or
harsh or abrasive, with others in our life. The moving parts of *Never
Let Me Go* lie on this symbolic plane. The amount we care for the
characters begins to define the novel, and what seemed plot-less becomes
thick with drama and heartache.\
\
The biggest injustice in the book \-- an injustice that overshadows all
others \-- is the purpose of Hailsham students\' very existence. From
the beginning, Ishiguro brings us so close to these students follies and
fortunes. But it\'s revealed to us, and to the students as they grow
older, that these adventures mean nothing in the end. In this England,
clones have no right to a free and happy life. In fact, the students
*are privileged* to go to make, have friends and loved ones because most
people like them have none of this (what conditions are other clones
raised in? We can only imagine.) We find that no matter how lovely a
childhood Kathy had \-- no matter how tightly she gripped the doll and
said *Never Let Me Go* \-- this world was not made for her. No matter
how deep and her strong her love goes, her life is ripped apart when she
comes of age.\
\
Is this so different from real life? Call me cynical, but I don\'t think
so. Though life can seem rosy for many, I know that for most of the
privileges in society someone else has to be pushed aside. Perhaps it\'s
the custodial staff who come in late in the evenings to clean university
libraries. Perhaps it\'s the Nike sweatshop workers across the world
who, day-to-day, risk their lives in dangerous conditions to make
Western apparel. Perhaps it\'s the farmed animals \-- numbering in the
billions \-- who die each year so their bodies can be sold to our
stomachs. Who makes these choices? Who decides who\'s rich and who\'s
poor? Who decides whose life matters? These questions are lurking in the
background of *Never Let Me Go*, never explicitly mentioned but
impossible to ignore.\
\
In real life and in Ishiguro\'s England, the glaring injustice of
society is never discussed. Hailsham is not really a school, but an
example of a \"humane\" way to \"rear\" clones \-- to give them a good
life before they \"complete\". The childrens\' true fate is only hinted
at throughout their upbringing, for knowing the truth would break the
illusion of happiness\*. The art that Kathy and her friends create in
class as children is taken to show \"who they really are\" \-- that is,
to prove to others that clones have deep personal lives. To Miss Emily,
Madam, and others, Hailsham is a big step for the movement. To Kathy and
Tommy and the reader, this perspective seems a little outrageous. Who
else knows how *real* the clones\' lives except those who have lived
them first-hand? The thought of having to prove ones\' individuality and
*life* is an assault to that life itself.\
\
I felt sad after reading *Never Let Me Go.* In some ways I feel that the
world of Tommy and Ruth and Kathy is still around, whether in the exact
form of Hailsham or in another way. That makes the ending quite real,
even if it is a dystopia. But though this book was sad, reading it
shielded me from the stressful cycle of news. It was an escape from
relentless statistics into person-to-person empathy that seems missing
in the way we understand the world. And that really was cathartic \--
like the tears of clouds which make the world a little greener.
Sometimes a dose of sadness is really what we need.\
\
\
\* There are many illusions in this novel. The make-believe skits and
plots between the children at Hailsham are examples, but there are far
more sinister ones surrounding their lives. The children hold onto hopes
that once someone leaves Hailsham, they can grow up to be anyone they
want \-- they hold onto this because the truth would simply be too
upsetting. And England at large holds onto the idea that raising
children so that they can *die* for anothers\' benefit is at all morally
right.

at [June 01,
2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/never-let-me-go-by-kazuo-ishiguro.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/06/never-let-me-go-by-kazuo-ishiguro.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5987925990630275856&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5987925990630275856&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5987925990630275856&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5987925990630275856&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=5987925990630275856&target=pinterest)

Labels: [review](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/review)

## Monday 25 May 2020 {#monday-25-may-2020 .list-paragraph}

### [Pad thai](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/pad-thai.html)  {#pad-thai .list-paragraph}

Pad thai seems to be the only thing that can bring my family together.\
\
Well, almost. Me, my brother, and my dad got it from Banana Tree, a Thai
place. But my mom got the pad thai from an Indian place right next-door.
Geographically close, yet symbolically different.\
\
So we all eat pad thai. Together, in the same room, but also apart. Some
of our legs are crossed, some are put down. Some of us sit at the
kitchen table, some on the couch. Most of us are on our phones (of
course). Certainly not together holding hands and saying grace and
making polite conversation.\
\
Why? American food isn\'t good, flavorful, or spicy enough for my
parents. East Asian isn\'t either \-- they just can\'t get behind the
whole tofu thing. And my brother having Indian food? That\'s out of the
question. They are simply
[incompatible](https://wwwdabblebabble.wordpress.com/2020/05/05/dont-point-the-finger/)
with each other. So a lot of the time when we eat \"together\", it\'s
pad thai.\
\
Then there\'s the whole vegan thing. Vegan cheese? Un-American. Eating
anything but chicken(\'s) wings with your hands? Un-American. Dosa with
coconut chutney? Delicious, but un-American.\
\
My brother is American through and through. That\'s why he\'s going
there today. Vroom. Off he goes, on a plane to the Nation\'s capital and
away from here. He is set on this.\
\
Me? I have a mixed relationship with America. I live there (normally, at
least, when there\'s no virus). I study there, if I study at all. And I
was born there (no parenthesis there). I can probably name more things
wrong with America than things that are right. Maybe that\'s
un-American. In another sense, it could be like tough love.\
\
And my parents, too, have this mixed relationship. They lived there for
a while, and called it home before moving to the UK. They have American
accents, for the most part. But my family isn\'t American like the ones
that have a home there, go there for summer holidays, or visit
grandparents for Thanksgiving or Christmas. No, those times are
reminders that we\'re not fully American. That part of our lives is
still in India, whether we like it or not.\
\
"Ladies and gentlemen, my name is \*\*\* and I'm your chief flight
attendant. On behalf of the entire crew, welcome aboard British Airways
flight \*\*\*, a non-stop service from London, UK to Washington DC.\"

at [May 25, 2020](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/pad-thai.html) [2
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/pad-thai.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=830873810584616252&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=830873810584616252&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=830873810584616252&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=830873810584616252&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=830873810584616252&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal)

## Sunday 22 December 2019 {#sunday-22-december-2019 .list-paragraph}

### [The revolution won\'t happen online](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/12/the-revolution-wont-happen-online.html)  {#the-revolution-wont-happen-online .list-paragraph}

Several days ago, I hiked the Berkeley Fire Trails with two close
friends as an end to our semester. We walked for an hour up the trail...
through the dark paths, avoiding knotted roots and murky puddles. As we
approached the top, the narrow path we had hiked opened to a wide,
grassy clearing. San Francisco was in full view, with its tall towers
and bright lights, cars relentlessly zooming by. Even on our midnight
hike, a respite from the busy semester, it seemed impossible to escape
from the rage of urban life. We looked out onto the City -- the hub of
the Silicon Valley -- and it felt at that earnest moment that real life
had been trumped by a virtual world.\
\
From our vantage point, I thought about Mark Zuckerberg's words: *It was
built to accomplish a social mission -- to make the world more open and
connected*. I suppose this is the guiding principles of Facebook (if
they employ any principles at all). Our world looks connected, yes. We
are connected in an economic sense, buying things from across the
country that can reach our doorstep the next day, wearing shirts made
from a factory in Cambodia, and handling a device that was assembled in
China. In a social sense, we have hundreds of "friends" on Facebook, we
can text others every moment of every day, and news is given to us every
minute.\
\
Such connection -- particularly the social aspect -- seems ripe for
prosperity and social change. Buying our goods from far-away, it is
said, graces us with affordable purchases while giving employment to
those less privileged. Social media seems like the breeding grounds for
activism. By having so many digital connections, we can form online
communities of a size and strength previously not possible. We can
support other groups by "liking" the pages and thus easily form
coallitions. On online forums, we can engage in direct action and
challenge others in a public way (while remaining safe behind our
keyboard). It seems the key parts of a social movement -- community,
coallitions, and direct action -- are easily attained online.\
\
I don't think I challenge these ideas in an abstract sense. Online
communities have been a large part of my life, especially the earlier
days of Youtube (with creators like VlogBrothers or Numberphile) and
different forums on Reddit (like /r/likeus, /r/oddlysatisfying, or the
interesting and hilarious /r/outside) (and I myself am writing on a
blog-post!) Of course, there are other projects of brilliant scale: the
development of GNU Linux and the creation of Wikipedia, for instance,
have both democratized computing power and information in an incredible
way.\
\
But social networks are a different beast. Facebook may have started as
a garage-based experiment with software, but suddenly it has entrenched
itself into our society. It has grown to the scale of billions of people
-- beyond what any one person can imagine, and certainly beyond what it
was originally conceived to be. But this expansion has not happened with
the best of intentions. In our age, Facebook's primary purpose is not to
host informed discussions or let you talk to your grandma -- it's to
turn a profit. This type of software is proprietary, not open-source; it
has hundreds of developers, psychologists, and business-people working
to seize your mind to make money.\
Even if we think we are using Facebook as a tool for another cause, it
undeniably attacks *us* in a array of dimensions. Notifications on
Facebook are designed to distract our focus, working beyond the point of
helpfulness and causing wide-spread cases of addiction and depression.
Facial recognition software turns our harmless posts of photos into a
dataset for recognition, expanding the reach of the American
surveillance state. We all heard about the catastrophe in 2018, when
Cambridge Analytica used our profile information to predict our
political views, potentially helping wreck havoc on liberal democracy.
In short, Facebook treats us like Big Ag considers animals -- not as
people, but as objects to be used and exploited.\
\
These tendencies should be disturbing for anyone -- particularly an
activist. I would argue that because of these incentives, any
capabilities Facebook (or other social networks controlled by malicious
corporations) has to aid activism is not to be trusted. Anything that
resembles legitimate discussion will soon be over-run by trolls and
demagogues. Any messages sent on such a platform can be intercepted by
the government when it's most crucial. If any information is sent
online, we should not fight for "engagements" or attention on a platform
that is designed to exploit us. The Revolution simply won't happen
online.\
Cliff Stoll, a retired astrophysics professor and online educator, wrote
an essay in 1995 on this topic. He was a lonely voice of dissent in a
world of techno-optimists. I was struck by this paragraph:\
\
"What's missing from this electronic wonderland? Human contact. Discount
the fawning techno-burble about virtual communities. Computers and
networks isolate us from one another. A network chat line is a limp
substitute for meeting friends over coffee. No interactive multimedia
display comes close to the excitement of a live concert. And who'd
prefer cybersex to the real thing? While the Internet beckons brightly,
seductively flashing an icon of knowledge-as-power, this nonplace lures
us to surrender our time on earth. A poor substitute it is, this virtual
reality where frustration is legion and where---in the holy names of
Education and Progress---important aspects of human interactions are
relentlessly devalued."\
\
I believe in so many ways, we have seen Professor Stoll's predictions
come true.\
\
It's worth it to consider how activism has happened in the past. It was
done when people went door-to-door and canvassed against destructive
companies. It was done through in-person meetings, hashing out campaign
strategy on a blackboard. It was and is done through confrontation:
looking others in the eye and showing that *you care*. Martin Luther
King Jr. didn't write his *Letter from Birmingham Jail* in a tweet -- he
wrote it in a prison cell, in solitude. *That's* the focus we need to
change the world. Yes, we must adapt to the times, but we cannot forget
that what matters most of all is **human connection**.\
\
For further reading:\
Cliff Stoll, ["Why the Web Won't Be
Nirvana"](https://www.newsweek.com/clifford-stoll-why-web-wont-be-nirvana-185306)\
Billy Bragg, Three Dimensions to Freedom\
Martin Luther King Jr., ["Letter from a Birmingham
Jail"](https://www.africa.upenn.edu/Articles_Gen/Letter_Birmingham.html)

at [December 22,
2019](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/12/the-revolution-wont-happen-online.html)
[1
comment:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/12/the-revolution-wont-happen-online.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7646352555297890953&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7646352555297890953&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7646352555297890953&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7646352555297890953&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7646352555297890953&target=pinterest)

Labels: [social
change](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/social change)

## Friday 22 November 2019 {#friday-22-november-2019 .list-paragraph}

### [I\'ve lost my faith in numbers](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/11/ive-lost-my-faith-in-numbers.html)  {#ive-lost-my-faith-in-numbers .list-paragraph}

When I was little, I used to love playing with numbers. I'd try the New
York Times Sudoku puzzles with my mom. I would hone my skills in
arithmetic in games online and then zoom through the "minute
multiplication" in school, loving the competition of it. I even learned
a trick to calculate the day of the week of any date, past, present, or
future, inspired by a TED talk I watched. Every bit of math and
numerical manipulation enthralled me.\
\
There is something intoxicating about studying mathematics. It follows
the rhyme and reason not of Shakespeare, but of propositional logic; the
only thing you need to do to "prove" something is write a few statements
that indicate it is so. Those nasty word problems involving lots of
algebra seem impossible at first, but after a moment of realization it's
clear that all that's needed to solve them is to write an equation in a
special way. The harder the problem, the more complicated the equation
-- this is a trend that follows some for years beyond high school.\
\
In a certain way it seems ridiculous. But I have always believed in
numbers. I have always trusted data, so long as there's a lot of it. And
this is a conviction that is widespread in many fields -- that the best
way to solve climate change is to "engineer" a solution, that the best
way to solve inequality is a more progressive wealth tax, that the best
way to stop disease is to model it with differential equations. Such a
belief, again, is intoxicating. It turns the big, bad, messy world into
an easy model. The unspoken assumption in economics, science,
engineering, is that there's a solution if you simply level up the
mathematics -- that with sufficiently detailed equations, you can
describe our society.\
\
It was shocking to me to realize that this is not how the world works. I
realized that despite the hundreds of millions of people trapped in
poverty -- a number so big it should shock any numerate person -- no one
really cares. I realized that despite the certainty that the world is
*dying* -- through hundreds of scientifically proven statements -- the
political forces are simply not there. And I realized that despite the
*billions* of non-human beings we murder, ruthlessly, every year... No
one wants to talk about animal rights.\
\
Why is this? Why are we as human beings so unwilling to accept facts
right in front of us? Why do we cling to what is known instead of what
the data says?\
I feel what is lacking in raw numbers is a *story*. Truly, a story.
Stories last for thousands of years -- myths and legends from ancient
India, China, Greece... anywhere have been passed down through
generations. I remember when I was little, too, I would beg my mom to
continue reading Enid Blyton's *The Five Find-outers* as she sat by my
bedside. I would be entranced by the mythological world of Percy
Jackson, and by the magic of *Eragon* and *Guardians of Ga'Hoole*.\
\
These stories, statistics, have *no basis* in reality. They probably
don't even follow the laws of physics. And yet I was, am, and will
always be transfixed by stories. And I think others are too. Barack
Obama's speech in 2004, simply telling the *story* of his family coming
to America, is known as the one that made him president. Upton
Sinclair's *The Jungle* shed light on the horrific meat-packing industry
in a way that labor statistics never could, thus bringing about massive
legislative changes in the meat-packing industry. And of course, the
story of Rosa Parks in the Civil Rights Movement -- not the countless
facts about discrimination in America -- is what sparked a wave of
resistance across the South.\
\
There's no science to story-telling. However much I may long for it, no
equation can predict which stories will cut to the hearts of people. No
computer (not yet) can write a *real* story -- one with characters you
fall in love with, one that shakes you at the core. Thus the
story-teller gains an extraordinary power. When I find time to read a
novel (recently, Khaled Hosseini's *A Thousand Splendid Suns*) I
remember the magic it takes.\
\
I've always been told numbers -- big data, statistics, economics -- are
the way to land a job and change the world. I think now that to really
make people *care*, it's really important to nourish the art of
story-telling. There's really nothing like it.

at [November 22,
2019](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/11/ive-lost-my-faith-in-numbers.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/11/ive-lost-my-faith-in-numbers.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2525720342390028913&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2525720342390028913&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2525720342390028913&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2525720342390028913&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=2525720342390028913&target=pinterest)

Labels: [personal](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/personal),
[social change](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/social change)

### [Coulter, Cancel Culture, and Compassion](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/coulter-cancel-culture-and-compassion.html)  {#coulter-cancel-culture-and-compassion .list-paragraph}

*On November 22nd, 2019 the Berkeley College Republicans hosted Ann
Coulter, a conservative commentator, on the UC campus. Several hundred
students and anti-fascist protesters demonstrated before and during the
speech. Police was called to prevent violence, and eventually 5 were
arrested in the rally.*\
\
"Ann Coulter is a fascist" were the signs posted on Dwinelle Hall. Such
a statement is widely agreed upon by most liberals -- statements like
"why do we let people in wheelchairs become citizens? I feel sorry for
cripples, but that doesn't mean I want them in my country.", or "I have
to say I'm all for public flogging.", or "God gave us the earth. We have
dominion over the plants, the animals, the trees." Such blatantly
discriminatory statements, statements marginalizing people in
already-difficult circumstances... Statements that define who is
superior, who is inferior, and who is allowed to be a citizen. Such
statements are akin to those made in Nazi Germany -- this is fascism in
the extreme.\
\
And so, the argument goes, Ann Coulter should not be allowed on our
campus. Now, this is where things get a little tricky.\
\
On the one hand, she technically *does* have the right, at least in the
US, to speak. No matter how vilely racist, one might say that she is
protected by the "right" to Free Speech. This is, however, with a
caveat: that her speech does not cause or incite violence against anyone
else. You have the right to say, "I disagree with Trump," but not to say
anything encouraging physical harm against him. And despite the
horridness of her statements, Ann Coulter doesn't directly incite
violence.\
\
On the other hand, one might extend this concept of *physical* violence
to *emotional* violence. UC Berkeley, some claim, should be a sanctuary
for marginalized groups -- a place for people to feel safe and
unthreatened. Ann Coulter's words -- even if they are just words --
threaten minorities at this university, hearkening back to threats
against Jews in the Holocausts. It is horrifyingly scary.\
\
So what's my issue? Why am I writing this post? My problem isn't one
about vision; I believe in the same world that the anti-fascist protests
were fighting for last night. I have an issue of approach -- that
*shutting down* speakers with such forcefulness is simply not in line
with the world of peace and tranquility that we are striving for.\
\
I believe that this is related to "Cancel Culture". Cancel Culture is
something we've all heard of -- the idea that in order to educate people
about social inequalities, we should simply call them out. In order to
stop racism, it is said, we have to ridicule someone every time they
call Africa a country. In order to stop speciesism, we need to vilify
anyone eating an animal. And in order to stop fascism, we have to call
fascists out when they speak and **shut them down**.\
\
Such a culture is reflected in the very framing of many movements:
"*Anti*fascists", rather than "liberationists"; the "United Week
*Against* Hate" (from Carol Christ's campus-wide email), not the "United
Week for Love"; that "Ann Coulter is not welcomed here" (from the Black
Student Union's statement).\
\
The mere framing of these issues turn them into a controversial one.
Leftist groups -- groups pushing for a compassionate, just and inclusive
society -- have fallen into the trap of using shocking, negative
language to communicate a message. This makes admirable activists be
subject to critique, because to the uninformed observer, "Ann Coulter is
not welcomed here" also seems like a type of fascism.\
\
And it's quite clear that *positive* framings are an essential part of
social movements. In the 1960s, oppressed black people fought for Civil
Rights as well as anti-segregation laws. In the 1990s, queer people
fought for Marriage Equality and against a culture of homophobia. But it
is the compassionate messaging that sticks with us -- it is abundantly
clear from their message that the Civil and Gay Rights Movements were
fighting for a just world, a prospect far more agreeable. This is simply
what I wish the Berkeley protesters would take into consideration.\
\
And with this compassionate language comes compassionate dialog between
people of different backgrounds. We should engage in evidence-based
dialog, not shut down opposition after one bigoted statement. We should
do creative, positive demonstrations in line with the just world that we
imagine. We should channel the energies used against fascists and use it
*for* a more beautiful world. *That*, to me, is what social justice is
about.

at [November 22,
2019](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/coulter-cancel-culture-and-compassion.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/coulter-cancel-culture-and-compassion.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7528234384599462965&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7528234384599462965&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7528234384599462965&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7528234384599462965&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7528234384599462965&target=pinterest)

Labels: [social
change](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/social change)

## Friday 8 November 2019 {#friday-8-november-2019 .list-paragraph}

### [Dear Professor](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/dear-professor.html)  {#dear-professor .list-paragraph}

*This is a letter I wrote to my economics professor about what we are
taught in university. The main idea, I suppose, is that we should not
only ask "what is efficient?" but also, "what is right?"*.\
\
Dear Professor \_\_\_\_\_\
\
I hope you are well! I wanted to address my comment in Monday's class --
"why study the Welfare theorems if they are based on such 'stupid'
premises?" -- because I fear it was taken the wrong way. But first, I am
sorry for my sass and any disturbance it caused, and I appreciated your
thoughtful answer despite that. I meant to explain further, and so I
hope to visit your office hours next week. Regardless, I wrote down some
of my thoughts so we could be on the same page.\
\
I agree that the Welfare Theorems and other important results in
classical economics are beautiful and profound. Some of the results of
respected economists are indeed miraculous, and it is an honor to study
such subjects from esteemed professors such as yourself.\
\
It seems to us students, however, that these beautiful theorems are seem
unrelated to our actual world. You made the point that in physics, we
first study the frictionless, idealized case before moving onto
complications. This is all very well for physicists. But economics is
about people, not particles, and living beings cannot simply be reduced
to mathematical equations. Moreover, making these erroneous assumptions
while ignoring the suffering caused can have massive consequences in our
world.\
\
An example is in the recent problem set, where Question 3 was about
"perfect competition", set in a "mango farm" in the Philippines. If one
researches a little into the plight of Filipinx farmers and
international corporations, this sentence suddenly seems massively
inappropriate. It's well-known that farmers there face dangerous
chemicals, long hours, and exploitative conditions, all of which was
ignored in your problem set.\
\
One example is an article by a Filipino journalist about the plight of
rice farmers in his country. He writes, "there was a time when \[farming
and agriculture\] boosted the economy and put us on the map... today,
our rice farming industry is up against the ropes and our own
government... how can we pay people less and still expect them to
survive?" Nevertheless, the very theorems that you tote in class are the
ones that companies use to justify exploitation of workers around the
globe.
https://www.philstar.com/opinion/2019/09/17/1952474/plight-filipino-rice-farmers\
\
The continued obsession with "rational consumers", the "free" market,
and other neo-liberal assumptions has had horrible consequences on
nations in the past. An example of this is the actions of the World Bank
in Jamaica, where the imposition of the Structural Adjustment Loan
Project caused an unnecessary reduction in public safety nets and social
support, massively harming poor people in a formerly-colonized nation.
Fatmir Haskaj referenced an exhaustive article about this in his
Berkeley class on global poverty.\
\
Finally, an obsession with the "free" market is an insult to the planet
and non-human life on our earth. The same economists who theorized about
Pareto efficiency have been the creators of industrial capitalism, the
force that is destroying our planet. British journalist George Monbiot
has an excellent piece on the evils of this exploitative system:
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/apr/25/capitalism-economic-system-survival-earth\
\
But even despite all this, I really love economics. I love playing with
equations, optimizing variables, and thinking about our world through
this lens. I also find it equally important to consider the social
ramifications of what economists are saying. We should not just ask
"what is efficient", but also "what is right? "\
\
Economics could have so much to say about the environment, human and
animal rights, and other social justice issues of our time. It is my
hope that your class can cover those topics -- not as a side-tangent,
but as a serious issue -- so that students can emerge the class with
tools to make the world a better place.\
\
Most sincerely,\
-- Rohan Prasad\
Economics Major\
University of California, Berkeley -- Class of 2022\
Community Lead, Berkeley Organization for Animal Advocacy\
"*We need, in a special way, to work twice as hard to make all people
understand that animals are fellow creatures, that we must protect them
and love them as we love ourselves." -- Cesar Chavez*

at [November 08,
2019](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/dear-professor.html) [No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/dear-professor.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7647289829146706461&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7647289829146706461&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7647289829146706461&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7647289829146706461&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=7647289829146706461&target=pinterest)

Labels:
[capitalism](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/capitalism)

## Sunday 3 November 2019 {#sunday-3-november-2019 .list-paragraph}

### [Shrek and Human Supremacy](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/shrek-and-human-supremacy.html)  {#shrek-and-human-supremacy .list-paragraph}

*This essay contains spoilers for Shrek (2001). If you haven't seen it,
you have a deep problem that needs addressing.*\
\
Though only eighteen years old, *Shrek* is one of those films that
deserves to be in the Western Canon. Its story is the classic tale of
the white knight saving a princess from a castle, but with a twist --
Shrek, the hero, is an "ugly" green ogre, ordered by Lord Farquaad to
rescue Princess Fiona to get back his swamp. *Shrek* has been revered as
a children's classic, made with stellar animation and subtle adult
humor, but I believe that it is much more than just a kid's movie. In
fact, *Shrek* is a movie about animal rights, deeply probing the notion
of human supremacy, and suggesting animality that is within us all.\
\
The story starts with the troubling persecution of "the ogre" near
Shrek's home. A group of villagers, all white males, gather pitchforks
and torches and head into the forest. Their task: to kill Shrek, the
"menace" they have not yet met. Such persecution, done by common people,
is undeniably fascist -- it is akin to red-tagging in the Philippines
throughout the era of Martial Law, the persecution of Jewish people
leading up to the Holocaust, or religious violence against Muslims in
India. Farquaad, the ruler of the land, set the orders, but he appealed
to a intrinsic fear of the human populations -- fear of "the other" too
close to home. Shrek is one of many victims of persecution, as evidenced
by the creatures from all over the kingdom that seek refuge in his
swamp. Shrek, however, does not allow the others into his territory,
showing the selfishness that comes when people are put under distress.\
\
The origin of these attacks is Lord Farquaad, the dictator and symbol of
human supremacy. We first see Farquaad torturing the Gingerbread Man,
pulling off bodyparts and dunking the Gingerbread Man into milk. Later,
we see Farquaad questioning the Mirror on the Wall, threatening violence
(smashing of the mirror) and forcing answers out of the spiritual being.
The power Farquaad exerts over other beings is clear -- he holds the
threat of violence, he isolates his victims so they have no social
support, and he has political power over the entire kingdom. Even the
Guards, empty suits of army, are under the command of Farquaad even if
he does not do them harm.\
\
Such human supremacy can be directly compared to real-life violations of
animal rights. The torturing of the Gingerbread Man is akin to
vivisection of animals (often done when they are alive), chemical
testing, or psychological experimentation. These exertions of human
supremacy are done under the pretense of utilitarian benefit (for
medicine or cosmetics), but *in every case* do *nothing* for the species
harmed. The exploitation of the Mirror can be compared to the dairy
industry, which seperates mothers from their children with the goal of
extracting bodily fluids, unconsentually and under the threat of
violence (cows that do not participate in milking are hit for being
"lazy"). Most stark, however, is the psychology of the Human
Supremacist, who believes that he (for it is always a *he*) can exploit
others to no end with no consequence.\
\
But if this film is against Human Supremacy, what do we make of the
exotification of Fiona, the human female? Fiona holds herself to human
female standards in many ways: her voice is clear and refined in
contrast to Shrek's raw Scottish accent; she takes great pride in her
human appearance and is shocked when she sees Shrek is an Ogre; and she
mostly is able to do domestic labour. Nevertheless, it's clear that
Fiona has repressed animality in her actions. At several points, we see
Fiona enjoy getting dirty in the mud of the forest, burp in front of
Donkey and Shrek, and rapidly take down Guards with martial arts.\
\
To us, these actions are unexpected because they are both masculine and
animalistic. Yet it demonstrates the repression that effects us when we
subscribe to patriarchal or anthropocentric frameworks -- in fact, the
yearning to belch, take down enemies, or roll around in dirt is within
us all. To pretend to is to reject our unity with nature, and to pretend
that we as humans are not still bound by inner instincts. Of course, a
literal manifestation of this is Fiona's nightly transformations, a
statement that no matter how refined, no human can escape the "curse" of
animality.\
\
Farquaad is deposeda (and killed) at the end of the film, a supposedly
happy ending, but we should still question the validity of the new
reign. In democracies and dictatorships alike, foul rulers are only
toppled when their pillars of support are shifted, whether it be the
military that backs them or a dramatic change in public opinion. In the
case of Shrek, non-human creatures still have no political rights, and
no voice in this feudal society. They are protected by the technocratic
rulers, Shrek and Fiona, but that is no guarantee of long-term safety.
Shrek and Fiona have their own biases, internal hatred of non-humans,
and violent tendancies, and perhaps for a truly just society a new,
democratic regime is needed.\
\
Despite these short-comings\*, *Shrek* the movie stands as a powerful
statement for animal rights. It is a story about the tyranny of humans,
the beauty of inter-species cooperation, and a movement towards a just
world for all. Its message is one that I hope we can carry into the
world at large.\
\
\* One small foot-note: the jokes making fun of Donkey ("Shrek's ass")
are speciesist. They recreate the narrative that Donkeys are
unintelligent, vile, and unrespectable. Though used comically, the same
depiction of donkeys is used to justify their enslavement and
commidification for human use. Such jokes are also examples of human
supremacy.

at [November 03,
2019](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/shrek-and-human-supremacy.html)
[No
comments:](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2020/05/shrek-and-human-supremacy.html#comment-form)

[Email
This](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3038800757565711101&target=email)[BlogThis!](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3038800757565711101&target=blog)[Share
to
Twitter](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3038800757565711101&target=twitter)[Share
to
Facebook](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3038800757565711101&target=facebook)[Share
to
Pinterest](https://draft.blogger.com/share-post.g?blogID=597296393545314941&postID=3038800757565711101&target=pinterest)

Labels: [review](https://www.rohanprasad.org/search/label/review)

## Saturday 26 October 2019 {#saturday-26-october-2019 .list-paragraph}

### [Digital Minimalism](https://www.rohanprasad.org/2019/10/digital-minimalism.html)  {#digital-minimalism .list-paragraph}

This week I am planning to employ a version of "digital minimalism". The
goal of it is to redefine my relationship to technology, and to only use
it in a way that serves my values.\
\
This idea comes from a computer science professor, Cal Newport, and a
book he wrote called Digital Minimalism. He claims the way to do this is
to cut out *all* digital devices from one's life for a month (or so).
After one experiences an entirely analog life, the Minimalist very
gradually adds technology that clearly services their goals. For
instance, if someone believed that Facebook bolstens their social life,
they might realize after taking a break that they are perfectly happy
contacting close friends through other means. Thus, they would not add
Facebook back into their life. Without taking that first leap, however,
the person wouldn't realize that technology actually does a *disservice*
to their life.\
\
We often believe that every single bit of technology we allow into our
lives makes us happier. Many of my peers use AirPods, the Apple Watch,
and other pervassive devices to be in *constant* connection with the
world wide web. More time online, it is said, lets us read more, listen
to more podcasts, connect with friends about last minute changes in
plans. There is no perceived downside to the Maximalist's way of life.\
\
In fact, this can be very destructive. I myself have noticed my
attention span greatly reduced when I always have the choice to be
online. I notice my ability to deepy introspect suffer when there is so
much information available online. I notice that as my online presence
grows, my presence in the real-world diminishes. A quote I once heard
summmed this up well: "A wealth of information means a poverty of
attention."\
\
And so, I find it extremely important to take control of our minds. Our
capacity to focus and be present is refined *only* when we are in
completely in the real-world. A digital reality is not a reality at all,
and any connections to the internet are potential sources of destruction
for our lives.\
\
And yet I am hypocritical. I can't really bring myself to eliminate
*all* technology from my life, but this coming week is a dip in the
water of life. My version of Digital Minimalism, from October 28th
(Monday) to November 3rd (Sunday), is to:

-   Not use my smart-phone for a week

-   Only connect to internet on my laptop for 30 minutes each morning

-   Only use email, BCourses, and a couple other essential websites
    > during online time

For people to contact me, I will respond to email once a day, and have a
"brick" phone to mainly make and recieve calls (texting is hard on those
things!).\
I am quite excited.

[^1]:

[^2]:

[^3]:

[^4]:
